Oak and earth intermingle around robust aromas of wet forest floor in this vineyard-designated Pinot that hails from a high-elevation site. Small in production, it offers intense, full-bodied raspberry and blackberry steeped in smoky spice and smooth texture.
This wine is put together from multiple vineyard sources, including the well-known Morelli Lane and Widdoes, all farmed by the Duttons. Larger in production than many of the vineyard-designates, it offers baked bread and juicy overtones of cranberry-raspberry layered atop luxuriously toasted oak. It'll show well at the table.
Esterlina's Pinot is very perfumey, light in body and soul at first, as it gathers steam with a tasty backbone of lush red fruit, spice and plenty of staying power over a meal.
Delicate in cranberry and strawberry, this wine is highlighted in uplifted acidity and plenty of length and breadth within its medium-bodied structure. A pleasing streak of cardamom is consistent throughout, as accents of forest floor and cola figure in.
This is a relatively thick and dense wine, grippy in tannin and oak at first, youthful and desiring of time and air. Beyond its strength, its shows the beginnings of delicacy and grace, commingling raspberry with clove and tea.
This is a soft, smooth and earthy wine, still unraveling from its youth, that's crisp and fresh in acidity. Chewy still in texture, it offers a glorious celebration of red cherry, rhubarb, tea and clove.
From the sought-after site on Westside Road, this wine delivers a nuanced, elegant expression of juicy red cherry, plum, pomegranate and light, compelling spice. With a depth of body and soft, integrated tannin, it's complex without being overpowering, finishing in a mix of sautéed mushroom and forest floor.
This is the producer's highest and most westerly vineyard site. It holds back from the start, still tightly wound and somewhat reduced on the nose. As it opens, ethereal layers of wild strawberry, green tea and lacings of herb and white pepper unveil to tremendous effect.
Each year, this wine is intended to be an experiment. This vintage's creativity involves the addition of soil from the Santa Rita Hills to vineyards in the Russian River Valley. Yeasty on the nose, the result is rich and decadent, a wine that's juicy and velvety in black and red fruit and pillowy tannins. A warmth of spice lingers on the finish.
Smoky cinnamon and nutmeg pierce the entry of this wine, a dense, full-bodied expression of place. Layers of rich cherry and strawberry lie over classic varietal earthiness, finishing medium in length.
This wine pushes the notion of low alcohol, giving soft and subtle an extreme definition. As such, it will not please everyone. Earthy spice and an exotic notion of orange blossom dance around a light, clear body and high-toned minerality. It hails from a foggy, shaded vineyard in Freestone.
Light in color and weight, this vineyard-designate conveys a wealth of rose petals, earth and bright, crisp red cherry. Compellingly layered and shy, it defines the term ethereal. The finish is medium in length and accented in spicy cardamom.
This wine combines fruit from both cool and warm sites, which in the vintage might have both leaned on the warmer side. Black fruit and licorice give it a burly character at first. Decanting or letting the wine open in the glass will help, but still it retains smooth, velvety tannins and resolved oak.
Stewy plum and cherry jam lie at the heart of this densely layered, though silky-smooth wine, light bodied and ethereal despite the ripeness of fruit flavor. It finishes simply and without fuss.
This wine offers astounding quality for the price, a juicy expression of fruit and spice with a depth of firm resolved tannin, lively acidity and layers of black cherry and cola. Approachable and delicious, it hits the mark on every level being light bodied and refreshingly balanced while complex.
Smoky, with bursts of sage and celery root, this is a wine that is unabashedly earthy, spicy, bold and juicy at its core. Light-bodied and delicate, the palate shows beautiful floral undertones. This is a complex and beguiling bottling that should hold well for years to come.
From a three-acre spot known to get a hearty dose of fog, this wine speaks to cool-climate character, unveiling crisp floral layers of dried sage and white pepper from the get-go. Those aspects are joined by rose, lavender and cranberry-rhubarb on the palate, finishing with subtle offerings of mushroom and forest floor.
This wine is tightly wound and thickly colored. Full bodied in style, it shows plenty of oak influence, aged in entirely French oak for 16 months, 42% of it new. Cranberry and sour cherry dominate in terms of fruit, with an underlying agenda of clove and tea.
With a fruity exuberance of crisp cranberry and red cherry, this wine delights in touches of nuanced herb and earth. Light bodied and refreshing, it maintains elegant complexity and depth, a lovely example of site and winemaking.
Light and clear in color, this wine veers into cool-climate, restrained territory in its well-defined lines of sage, dried herb and stemmy earth. Dry tannins give an oomph of power beneath traces of dried rose.
This is an earthy, rustic wine tasting of black cherry, cola and a mention of sage, medium bodied on the palate and softly textured. It will please a range of palates, showing varietal character with vigor.
Medium in build and lengthy with layers of flavor, this vineyard-designate offers a wealth of rhubarb, pomegranate, cherry and black tea, the background built around strong notions of forest floor.
Soft and sexy, this small-production Pinot is made from Swan-clone grapes exclusively, which provides an intriguing spiciness to the wine. Amid the spice is a brambly taste of blackberry and blueberry, layered and juicy on the palate, the tannins well-ingrained through the finish.
There's an earthy intensity to this reserve wine, generous in oak and cedar notes with complicated, concentrated mix of plum, cherry and berry. Nonetheless, the wine intrigues and delights.
A clear, light-bodied wine that's slightly reduced on the nose, this Spring Mountain site provides a tightness of black tea and cherry cola, with a leanness that's hard to miss. Leather, currant and baked bread add additional complexity and intrigue.
Specks of rosemary give the aromatic entry of this wine a nice herbal invitation. This subtlety is followed by more bombastic waves of big, juicy black cherry, berry and oak. The tannins are still substantial, suggesting cellaring, through 2021.
A larger selection from Signal Ridge, Bravium's main bottling is still tiny production, light on its feet and aromatic in rose petal and violet. With notes of black cherry and pomegranate its tannins are silky and the wine deliciously priced.
A block of vines set literally near a grove of Redwood trees, the 2010 Redwood's Edge is structured and slightly austere and elusive, a concentrated rendering of deep, dark red fruit, lavender and woody undertones that's incredibly delicious.
Soft and supple, this has a heavy streak of spearmint and an herbal finish that also offers dark black cherry and ripe, leathery tannins.
This is a fairly light, bright Pinot Noir with the marks of a ripe year and time spent in oak. It is crafted under the guidelines of a certified sustainable grape growing program. Medium-bodied and juicy, it's fairly priced and ready to enjoy now.
This thick, concentrated wine offers complex notions of sandalwood and soapstone, savory in pleasant ways. Clove accents the warmth of strawberry compote laced in rhubarb.
The vineyard source for this tasty wine is farmed by a fifth-generation Japanese-American originally from California's Central Valley. Tightly wound in oak and tannin, it opens pleasantly to reveal a wealth of rose petals, earth and youthful ripe, dark cherry. With moderate acidity and body, it lingers on the palate.
This wine is big in tannin, extracted and full bodied, with dense blueberry and maple syrup at its core. For fans of a rich style, it will impress for  its ripe, dark fruit and sizable yet velvety mouthfeel.
This is a substantial wine, concentrated in dark red berry color and flavor, from cherry to wild strawberry to more savory rhubarb compote. Muted on the nose, it has an underlying woody, herbal character that balances the vibrancy of the fruit.
In this inaugural release, winemaker James MacPhail travels to the far reaches of Annapolis to source grapes from the true wilderness, the site next door to Goldrock Ridge Vineyard. Made in a full-bodied style, this wine is intriguing in dried herb, black pepper and forest floor, with a healthy, lengthy seasoning of savory black tea.
Meant to provide value, this wine also offers big oak, smoke and a bittersweet taste of black-tea tannins. Shy in fruit, this has a slightly reduced effect on the finish.
There's something mushroomy and feral about this wine, which finishes with sour cherry.
Earthy and stemmy in dark black fruit, this wine contains 2% Syrah from Dunnigan Hills, though it's unclear how that contributes. Thin on the palate, it has a medicinal, minty flourish on the finish.
Aromatics of rose and mint give this wine prettiness on the nose before getting into darker, richer components on the palate. Medium in build, it retains a sizable tannin presence in its youth, complemented by dark cherry and a char on the oak.
Soft, supple and floral, this wine is full-bodied and moderately structured, offering bold swathes of compost, sage and cola spice.
Herbal in a shock of dusty sage and black tea, this is a layered, robust wine, deep in raspberry and vanilla flavor with a mineral-laden belly of stone. The finish is tannic and lengthy, showy in oak.
Firm and substantial on the palate, this is a complex Pinot, the red cherry fruit juicy and inviting and the wine layered in Chinese five-spice. Light in texture and weight the wine still offers a sense of place and gravitas.
Planted in 2001 above the Laguna de Santa Rosa near Sebastopol, Baranoff Vineyard is tightly spaced to mostly Calera-clone Pinot, providing the wine's bright raspberry and cherry overtones atop a layering of earth and spice. Thickly structured, it finishes with tart cherry.
Warren Dutton planted the first vineyard block of this Russian River Valley producer, the Pinot a combination of Dijon and Pommard clones. In the hands of new winemaker Jerome Chéry, the wine is exotic in spicy cinnamon and cardamom, earthy and herbal with layers of dark cherry.
This is a tangy, not entirely varietal wine that's dense in black tea and black fruit, with layers of tobacco and dried herb. Give it time in the glass to open.
Sinewy texture and bright acidity meet a funk of blue cheese and forest in this interestingly complex and affordable wine. The earthiness continues in streaks of tart cranberry that ride along the palate.
Shy and reserved on the nose, this wine is invitingly smooth and velvety in texture, with an intensity at its core. Anise, black tea, rose petals and cherry pie all figure in, with a juicy succulence making it pleasurable from first sip to last drop.
Cinnamon red hots and a depth of forested pine greet the nose in this compelling, medium-bodied wine, which is wholly exotic in approach. Asian spice and a nutty character form flavor and texture amidst a light, delicate ripeness of fruit and tannin.
Black licorice and compost add life and breadth to this roundly tannic, richly layered wine. Huckleberry and dark cherry give it a welcome fruitiness that's ripe and lush, as vanilla and cardamom complement the fruit.
There's a ripeness of raspberry wrapped in chocolate in this velvety, decadent, thick and viscous wine. Tart on the finish, it remains full bodied in style on the palate, concentrated and extracted.
There's a funkiness to this full-bodied wine, from undetermined provenance within the county. Thick in black cherry, it's straightforward and not fussy.
Crisp and robust in pine-forest aromas, ripe cranberry and savory black tea, this coastal wine is feral yet velvety in texture. Concentrated and full bodied, it has underbelly that's undeniably mineral.
Made in a full-bodied style with a density of firm tannins, this wine offers a mix of ripe black cherry and black licorice notes, the core succulent and strong.
From a tiny coastal vineyard, this wine appears light-bodied and delicate at first, building its power slowly in the glass. Sous bois, earthy spice and savory tea give it an edginess unfettered by fruit, while a healthy tannic structure keeps it grounded.
This wine is restrained on the nose and initially on the palate, showing a touch of reduction and tightly-held flavor. As it opens, it unleashes juicy dark cherry, berry and huckleberry notes, its core dense with tannin and oak.
A block-designated, 100% whole cluster-fermented wine, this shows a slightly carbonic mouthfeel and vibrant acidity. The flavors lean toward wild strawberry, pomegranate and cranberry, with a depth of forest compost lurking underneath.
A light, clear and bright wine from the heart of the appellation, this bottling exudes juicy layers of earthy cardamom spice and dark black cherry. It's well integrated and varietally consistent, offering jolts of minerality that buoy the texture.
Ripe, voluptuous blackberry and cherry overlie a dusty undercoat of tannin and minerality. These come across as rocky on the palate, complemented by moderate acidity and a rich texture. The fruit shows a maturity of both ripeness and attitude.
Structured, with years to go to take on added complexity and personality, this wine is also a study in immediate gratification, as it's presently so juicy and easy to enjoy. It comes from an east-facing block, planted to a suitcase clone. Exotic, rich red and black berry and cinnamon form an alliance of balance and mouthwatering seduction. The oak and tannin are fully in sync, while a salty, meaty finish provides additional decadence.
Dark, brooding cinnamon and fleshy black plum provide an exciting, complex counterpoint to the rakish earthiness and exotic Asian spice going on in this full-bodied, explosively compelling wine, its minerality lingering. It's young and still tightly coiled, with lingering minerality; let it open to enjoy now, but it would show best after some time, so cellar through 2024.
Youthfully flippant, this block of the Wayfarer Vineyard is sitting largely in sandstone, where the grapes pull remarkably revealing minerality from the soil. Racy and flinty, this medium-bodied, structured and flirty wine dances in a generosity of rich red fruit, raspberry mostly, seasoned in clove and cardamom that's fresh and incredibly seductive. Still, it'll age; drink now through 2024.
With a majority of Pommard clone in this wine contributing to its undeniable breadth and depth, this rich, rewarding wine will benefit from further time in bottle. Sultry baking spice accents kirsch and strawberry, with understudies of tar, rose garden and tannin, all framed by moderate acidity. Cellar through 2023.
Floral in aromas and yet darkly savory in cherry and clove, this full-bodied wine holds layered acidity and balanced oak at its core. It hails from one block of the vineyard and spent time in entirely new French oak. Baked raspberry tart finds a happy companion in the richness of maple and velvety tannin. Drink now through 2024.
Oh to have neighbors like these, bringing together several vineyard sites along this coveted stretch of the appellation. This bottling shows full-bodied richness and minerality dotted in a rose garden of pretty aromas and flavors. It's the silky-smooth texture that's most memorable, accented in earthy black tea and subtle oak tones.
The producer's Russian River Valley fruit comes from the Winside Vineyard, planted long ago by Anne Moller-Racke and Joe Nugent. It astounds in this must-have wine, complex and ridiculously velvety in texture. Pepper, clove and cardamom ride huge waves of baked fruit and mocha, with the structure to age through at least 2026, but why wait when it's so delicious now?
Crafted from 12 different clones planted throughout the estate vineyard, farmed to perfection, this is a delicious and exuberant expression of blueberry crumble that's succulent and inviting in every way. Full bodied, it retains enough acidity to remain mouthwatering and yet complex, a subtlety of white pepper and cardamom biting at the its heels. Drink now through 2024.
Juicy and stemmy, this is a big, bold wine, explosive in highlights of huckleberry, dark cherry and forest floor. With firm tannins for days, it offers enviable length and spice along a smooth grippy texture and forceful complexity.
Spicy, seductive and stemmy, this wine from the coveted vineyard site is a celebration of baked rhubarb and cranberry. Velvety on the palate and boldly ripe and rich, it offers highlights of spicy black tea and cardamom that complements and complicates the fruit.
Farmed by the vineyard manager who owns Small Vines, another small Pinot Noir producer, this is a complex, well-crafted wine, high in acidity and high-toned red fruit, like cranberry, pomegranate and cherry, with a wisp of orange peel on their heels. Light-bodied, it finishes with black tea and mushrooms fighting for attention.
Let this burly, big-boned beauty open to fully enjoy its robust oak and fistfuls of black cherry, the oak showing in terms of toasty, slightly reductive aromas. A smooth texture keeps the wine flowing along a concentrated highway of power and ripeness.
Floral, pretty and light, this wine was made for porch sitting and all-around relaxing. It never gives up on fruit and complexity, offering a medium body and vibrant acidity around the rose-petaled texture. This is a lovely sipper.
This is a serviceable, soft and widely distributed wine, yeasty with aromas of baked bread circling concentrated red fruit and black tea. Light bodied and youthful, it holds on to oak and tannin on the finish.
With a depth of ripe cherry flavor, Sean Thackrey's Wentzel Clone 777, shows concentration and weight, with a riper, fleshier and bolder character than its clonal companions grown in the same vineyard block.
The producer sources from three sites, each vineyard-designate worthy: Cleary Ranch and Rayhill Vineyard in Freestone, and Stiling Vineyard in Russian River Valley. Together they sing, coaxing spicy white pepper and clove from the grapes while a velvety texture of firm tannin provides support. Raspberry and baked cherry highlight the fruit flavors.
Silky carpets of cherry grenadine invite one into this vineyard-designate, framed by seductive streaks of herbes de Provence and earthy black tea. Juicy and generous on the palate, the wine is also complex and restrained, its finish wrapped in toasty, subtle oak.
From a selection of vineyard sites and clones, this wine offers juicy acidity behind a wave of plummy red and black cherry, an earthy foundation keeping things real. Oak and tannins are well integrated, and plenty of clove flavor make for a spicy finish. This gets extra attention for the awesome label.
Plummy and tight, this wine comes from the Green Valley section of the Russian River Valley. Youthful, it hints at fierce acidity around delicately woven specks of mint, pine forest, rhubarb and clove. In the background, the region's classic cola cherry characteristic shows as well. Drink now through 2021.
From a p of Sonoma Mountain exposed to the Petaluma Gap, this wine is spicy in cinnamon and cola, its oak profile reduced and intense. Roses and cherries provide the floral and the fruit around deeper, darker tendencies into Asian spice and black tea. Drink now through 2021.
This unique and interestingly yummy wine shows the exuberance of carbonic maceration. A light-bodied beauty, it offers grenadine and kirsch-like exoticness, buoyed by a tang of rose petals and orange zest.
A bit restrained on the nose, still young, this wine expresses raspberry and strawberry notes curled around a soft, medium-bodied core. Subtle in oak, it builds aroma and flavor in the glass, suggesting that it's worth the time to open before enjoying.
An elegant, restrained wine from the earthy appellation cooled by Pacific Ocean winds, this wine conveys a plethora of pretty clove, tea and rose petals, finished in cinnamon stick and vanilla.
Light in color and body, this is a cool-climate-influenced wine full of spice and life. It offers a mixture of rhubarb, strawberry and black tea, dusted in cardamom. The wine's spicy tones carry through to the medium-length finish.
Plum, sassafras and dark cherry form a contingency of flavor in this brooding, velvety smooth wine with a sizable finish. Cinnamon and clove are peppered throughout this full-bodied, well-made effort from the famous vineyard site.
From a replanted single vineyard, single clone site, the first vintage since that replanting in 2009, there's a youthful awkwardness still at play here, though the wine is quite juicy in black cherry and a lingering suggestion of soy. The oak and tannin are fairly firm and pronounced.
Pungent, spicy earth and cinnamon rise out of the wine's bouquet, inviting one to enjoy a structured expression of cranberry, raspberry and black tea. The tannin structure is well managed and the oak strong, yet integrated. Gap's Crown is among the vineyards that figure into the blend, along with several Dutton family properties. This is fresh and focused.
From a steep hillside vineyard that is estate owned and farmed, this wine is pungent in dark fruit and black tea. Elusive at first, it takes time to open and reveal classic Sebastopol Hills elements of earth and black cherry, finishing awash in cardamon.
Light and smoothly textured, this beautifully crafted wine is earthy in wild strawberry preserves, mushroom and forest floor. With a tannic grip that subsides in the glass, it's built to age but entirely enjoyable now, showing power and concentration on the finish.
Tart cherry supports seductive aromas of perfumed cola and cinnamon in this otherwise lean, sour and somewhat bitter-ending wine.
Minty bay leaf and leather define this wine in a savory, earthy way, with a strong notion of forest floor at its core. Firm tannins and subtle oak contribute a leathery aspect to the texture.
This is a light-bodied, lightly textured wine from one of the producer's coolest sites, minty and herbal in a taste of forest floor and strawberry. Citrus and pomegranate provide additional crispness and freshness on the palate.
This is a full-bodied, ripe wine, moderate in acidity, that reveals a wealth of baked plum and cinnamon in the glass. Along the way it meets a pine forest of savory companionship, finishing in youthful tannin.
This is a light, delicately crafted and affordable offering of the variety, a good value for the quality, that delivers nuanced layers of raspberry, strawberry and rose petal.
Earthy with streaks of mint and sage, this is a light-bodied, soft and perfumed wine, brightly highlighted in red cherry and pomegranate. It finishes crisp and juicy.
There's a touch of reduction on the nose of this wine, which otherwise offers a nutty profile that's somewhat shut down. Oaky and smoky, it has a bit of minty chocolate on the thick, full-bodied palate.
This is a powerhouse of a wine, from a tremendous coastal site, situated within a blanket of forest at 1,200-feet elevation. Reductive notes of diesel oak give way to juicy, stemmy and grippy characteristics, marked most pronounced by flavors of black cherry, raspberry and black tea.
Wrapped in an ethereal texture, this straightforward wine offers savory cranberry, strawberry and rhubarb around earth and spice. Medium bodied and robust, it finishes smooth and clean.
Cherry, cinnamon and vanilla play on the light-bodied, softly layered palate of this estate wine that develops flavor and aroma over time in the glass. Deeper, darker waves of boysenberry enter the picture toward the finish.
From a Ulises Valdez-farmed vineyard, along the same fence line as Valdez's Silver Eagle, this smoky, succulent wine has a reductive quality that will benefit from more time in bottle. Blackberry, strawberry and earth provide a fleshy aspect of intrigue. Cellar through 2023.
Spicy and earthy, this medium-bodied red is rewarding in its layers of dried herb, sage and strawberry patch. The tartness lingers on the lean palate, ending in cranberry and cardamom.
Suggestive of smoked duck, which would make a good pairing, this wine offers toasted oak around a core of raspberry-rhubarb compote, slightly complemented in herb. Velvety on the palate, it's well-composed, earthy and bright.
Muted aromas rise from the glass to reveal wild strawberry and floral rose notes in this wine. Crisp, underlying acidity and strong, present tannins support its ripeness and concentration, the body medium and the oak well-integrated.
This is an impressive wine at the price and production level, a great go-to for multiple occasions. It delivers earthy, candied strawberry around a light, bright core, remaining soft and smooth in texture and intensity, finishing with a tease of milk chocolate.
This vineyard-designate opens with intoxicating aromas of violet and rose before expanding on the palate into seamless, sturdy waves of juicy pomegranate and red cherry. Earthy and somewhat feral, it ends with a note of black tea.
This is just a gorgeous wine, so easy to enjoy, juicy in watermelon, grapefruit and dark, baked strawberry tart, a taste of summer evoked from every sip. Textured and complex, it gives a squeeze of blood orange that lingers and remains fresh through the finish. It's from the owner's estate vineyard, sought after by many other producers and made by Siduri's Adam Lee.
A young, structured Pinot Noir exuding tart red cherry and pomegranate, clearly grown in a cool climate in a cool year with an undertone of brushy herbes de Provence. The finish continues the theme of tartness and acidity, a willing partner for something unexpected like oysters or bacon-wrapped dates.
Still a very young wine, Londer's Paraboll is leathery and herbal, marked by swirls of bright cranberry and rhubarb flavor. With a full, silky mouthfeel and long finish, it's one of the best of their 2010s to seek out. This should gain complexity with a few years more of age.
Restrained in alcohol, this extreme Sonoma Coast Pinot delivers plenty of flavor, along the lines of funky, earthy licorice and whole-cluster cardamom spice, supported along the way by a pomegranate note. Zingy acidity is present, along with a low imprint of oak.
Beautiful aromas of rose and lavender open this wine, followed by intense mushroom, truffle and earth. Bright in acidity, a wild strawberry flavor sharpens the focus as soft, well-integrated tannins and subtle oak intermingle. The entire package finishes with a bang of crisp red-cherry fruit.
A special bottling made by the producer to honor her late son, this wine is dark and brooding, offering a depth and warmth of baked plum and blackberry seasoned in cardamom, with a satisfying finish of coffee. With sizable tannin and oak, it suggests cellaring through 2022–2025 to enjoy further its complexity and concentration.
Softly seductive, this structured, juicy Pinot hails from two Occidental-based vineyards, Hillcrest and Tanuda, each equally cool and close to the Pacific Ocean. Wild berry, cherry and anise shine brightly around earthy undertones and a finish of cardamom. This is a delicious, restrained and elegant wine.
Nutty, woody and tannic, this is a broadly etched wine. It is ripe and extracted, with simple layers of black cherry, cinnamon and cola.
Reduced in a weight of oak and tight tannins, this wine takes time to come around and develop any juiciness to the palate, offering a mix of red cherry and cranberry laced in forest and spice. It finishes quick and lean.
Baked bread and brown sugar make this a comforting wine in some sense. Similarly, the fruit follows a baked quality that makes it taste bigger than it is. Meanwhile, herbal leanings betray the wine's low level of alcohol.
A 100% varietal Pinot, this wine has a faint bouquet of ripe black cherry and blackberry, exuding full flavor and body. Smooth, the oak is low impact, providing extra weight and sustenance while remaining balanced with the fruit.
From a lovely site in the Sebastopol Hills, this wine is tart and tangy with pomegranate and dark cherry flavors, deepened with spicy earth and cardamom accents. It offers length, breadth and a full-bodied expression of the grape and place.
From a dark bottle, this salmon-colored rosé is medium-bodied and made in a bigger style than many others. Fully textured, it discloses flavorful touches of crunchy pear and cranberry. It would go well with a goat cheese salad adorned in dried cranberries and cherries.
From 100% estate-grown fruit, it spent more than a year in 100% French oak and is dense in baked strawberry, black cherry and a richness of herb. The grip of fruit is balanced by moderate acidity. The grapes are organically certified.
This is an earthy, stemmy wine, hugely concentrated and ripe in strawberry and rhubarb. Subtle in texture and bite, it shows a streak of cardamom on the finish.
Juicy in smoked cherry and a thick, velvety texture, this luxuriously pretty wine blends several estate blocks and clones. Forest floor, cola, clove, pine and black cherry highlight an integrated approach. It stays balanced and complex through a lengthy finish that further accentuates the spice.
Super earthy, this wine shows pomegranate, rhubarb and a touch of smoke, the aromas perfumed in rose petal. Medium bodied, it's balanced and elegant, with a streak of natural, lifted acidity.
Light and spicy, this wine surprises and delights. It shows a tannic underbrush of firmness and grit that's seasoned in tart acidity and flavors of rhubarb, currant and black tea. It's well balanced and enjoyable now.
Made by Kirk Venge from a Dutton Ranch vineyard site, this wine immediately offers a lot to like, from its earthy sassafras and compelling layers of crisp raspberry and cherry, to its soft layers of oaky density accented in rose. Requiring more time to open, with an ideal cellaring through 2023, it finishes with a flair of cedar and vanilla, lasting long on the palate.
Dense and concentrated, this smoothly rounded wine is well integrated and robust in oak and black cherry, a nice representation of estate grapes. With a strong presence of tannins, it needs to breathe before being enjoyed with earthy fare.
Strawberry jam accented in black cherry form the essence of this medium-bodied wine with high-strung acidity. It seems to speak to a fair amount of winemaking more than to a specific site, showing oak and earth on the finish.
This small-production wine is lightly spiced, robust and herbal. Dense and powerful wild strawberry and earth notes give it a sense of place.
Rose and turned earth notes mark the entry of this concentrated, tannic wine. Robust strawberry and black cherry flavors fill it out, wrapped in toasted oak.
A nicely balanced Pinot Noir from an unlikely spot––Portola Valley, on the western side of Highway 280 across from Stanford University––and a newish small producer. It's on the bigger side of the Pinot spectrum but has admirable texture and cherry and earth aromas. Only 130 cases made. Worth trying to see what unconventional areas can do with the variety.
This wine is a blend of several vineyard designates for the producer, including Campbell Ranch and Baranoff. It's pretty and floral, its aromatics an inviting mix of cinnamon-clove and cherry-plum. Exotically spiced in cardamom, it offers a tangy texture and lingering bite of oak on the finish.
This is a light, clear and straightforward wine, reduced somewhat on the nose, and exhibiting a tight, tannic structure and backbone of oak. Black cherry and blackberry dominate in flavor, with a full-bodied feel.
This wine has a strong herbal component of bay laurel and eucalyptus, girded in fully realized tannin and a juicy underbelly of cherry cola.
Velvety on the palate, this coastal wine from a site three miles from the Pacific Ocean shows cool-climate savory tones of cranberry, rose petal and pine, with streaks of black licorice adding to the complex range of flavor. Integrated and lushly elegant, it finishes in a strong touch of cardamom.
This is the producer's first release from this site. It succeeds wildly with its juicy, tart flavors of cranberry and red cherry that become fleshy and concentrated on the palate. Complex and delicious, it finishes with a thickness of toast and black tea.
This is a stellar wine. Dusty citrus spiked with clove comes to mind first aromatically and continues through to the palate. Tart acidity supports sublime texture and a lightness that never means lean. Red currant, grapefruit and orange provide additional lift and focus.
Bringing together multiple sites in one wine, this provides a fine example of the sum equalling more than the parts. Well balanced and crafted, it offers aromas of sandalwood and smoked meat that contrast with more exuberant, textured layers of black cherry and citrus peel.
Site speaks loudly in this beautifully made wine that is allowed to show its naturally inclined power within a constraint of cool-climate terroir. Juicy and explosive on the palate in cherry, raspberry, forest floor and jolts of cardamom, it's both lush and toasty, with a firmness to the tannin structure that suggests plenty of aging potential. It should get pretty interesting between 2024 and 2034, if one can possibly wait.
Brawny in flavorful black cherry, this well-crafted wine from a prime vineyard is plush with cinnamon and structured tannins. Floral in aroma, it tastes of strawberry and black cherry, with a seasoning of black pepper on the finish. Drink now through 2023.
Substantive in oak and weight, this concentrated, estate-grown wine is impressive in velvety texture and a savory conjuring of tobacco and black tea. Dark, brambly blackberry and dark cherry join in on the fun, providing vibrancy amid all the sophistication. Finishing with a dash of cardamom, this wine will cellar nicely through 2020.
From the Napa side of Carneros, this small-production Pinot is concentrated and oaky, layered throughout in spicy black cherry tart. The strong flavors lead to a strong, emphatic finish.
This wine opens with the fresh liveliness of stemmy earth and black tea notes, growing funkier and more herbal on the midpalate. Brightly layered and deeply flavored, it's a full-bodied rendition that remains true to its variety.
Light and earthy, this wine glows in spicy citrus, with a rhubarb-and-strawberry tartness and black tea accents. Medium-bodied, it shows an underlying crispness that belies its weight and depth, the oak subtle yet supportive.
Earthy in anise and blue fruit, this wine is inexplicably crisp and plush at the same time, showing the allure of the variety in its rose petal aromas. Medium bodied and velvety, it follows through in cassis and pomegranate flavors.
This wine is lifted by vibrant acidity and shows bread-like aromas accented with wild strawberry, compost and forest floor flavors. Light-bodied and fresh on the palate, it's nicely crafted and table-ready.
With a dull nose not making any promises, this wine turns out to be a velvety, full-bodied explosion of packed dark-cherry flavor and cola-vanilla, with moderate acidity and structure.
This is a light, clear and candied wine, somewhat thin, that's also tangy in acidity. Also holding 5% Zinfandel and 5% Sangiovese, it's definitely fruity in cherry and vanilla without getting overripe, a good value made by longtime winemaker Dr. Richard Peterson.
This wine features inviting aromatics of fresh plum, coconut and strawberry. The palate entices with savory rhubarb, bay leaf, mint and cola. A tight core of structure partners with soft, plush tannins.
This is a 100% estate wine from the producer's cool-climate sites near the town of Freestone. Black pepper and a nutty entry invite one in to explore further, this wine having many stories to tell as it develops. Soft and mellow, it's also feral and funky, with a strong essence of mushroomy forest floor.
This is a Westside Road site known for its rocky soils, and the wine presents sassafras, cherry-berry and roses on the entry before laying down a tightly woven mix of sour, salty cranberry and blood orange. It is softly voluptuous and velvety, though young, with a biting chewiness that should mellow in the cellar. Drink now through 2028.
This wine is from the Chenoweth grape-growing family and is made from three of its finest vineyard sites: Chenoweth Ranch, Treehouse and Bootleggers, all special spots that have produced grapes for special producers. Here, the result is a smooth and velvety expression of juicy cherry and raspberry, given freshness via vibrant acidity.
Stemmy wet forest and a distinct note of mushroom opens this exotic wine, a full-bodied and concentrated expression of the coast. Tangy orange and juicy rhubarb flavors support the searing acidity that balances the wine and keeps it fresh and lively on the palate.
Another tiny production, made in a different style from many of the other designates released by the producer this year, Ten Oaks is named for the, yes, 10 trees bordering the vineyard. Medium in tannin and oak, with a surprising lightness of being, it shows a citrus-like quality that makes it refreshing, while a sublime texture keeps rolling along the tongue.
This is an earthy, ethereal, lighter-bodied wine. It's satisfyingly varietal and shines in blue fruit, sarsaparilla, strawberry hulls and touches of a forest floor's trove of mushrooms. Well-hewn acidity gives it a freshness and structure with a background of firm tannin.
This is a wildly exotic wine, vibrantly abuzz in cranberry, pomegranate and rhubarb, a side note of barnyard-like earth and pretty rose petal. Tight-grained acidity remains firm in the glass and supportive of a grittiness of texture, notes of clove and black tea spiked throughout.
Rustic earth and forest emanate from this Pinot Noir, a rare find from Yountville, a growing area more devoted to Cabernet Sauvignon. From organically grown grapes, the wine has a smooth taste of wild strawberry and is not overly complex, the finish abbreviated and the wine on the lower price range of the variety.
From a cool-climate pocket within the larger Russian River Valley where even sparkling wine grapes thrive, this Pinot is muted somewhat, its flavors darker and oakier than expected, earthy yet shy in spice
Earthy and recalling the aromas of a woodshed or old barn, this tastes of darker fruit. Relatively lean on the palate, it ends as abruptly as it starts.
Made in fairly large quantities for a wide swath of palates, this wine is grippy in tannins and possessed of sizable weight and power.
Funky and feral, this is a dark, bacon-y Pinot that's alive on the palate, swarmed by silky tannins, the tension between oak and fruit resolved.
Although red cherry and raspberry make an appearance, this vineyard-designate is otherwise all about forested pine and earthy pungency, accented by a pretty floral tease of rose petal. High in acidity and tannin, it takes time in the glass to settle down and find its balance, with a lengthy finish of black licorice and clove.
A lightly colored, earthy and yet intense and powerful wine, this comes from a tremendous vineyard site along Westside Road. Pretty roses and cups of black tea are evoked on the entry before supple, well-built layers of lush, juicy cranberry, pomegranate and tangy cherry come into focus, finishing complex and rich.
Light in color and ethereally earthy, this wine opens with delicate notes of rose petal and allspice. It then broadens into a gorgeous, medium-weight and mouthfilling sensation of red fruit and more spice, which lingers long on the finish.
From a meticulously farmed site, this robust wine is intense and powerful, with a baked fruit component that makes it compelling and delicious. Forest floor, sage and rhubarb jam notes enwrap its concentrated weight and texture, with an underlying acidity that tingles the tongue.
From a blend of grapes sourced from three vineyard sites, including Keefer, one of the producer's vineyard designates, this wine displays a light red color. It has a noticeably supple texture, a soft expression of cranberry and red cherry accented by black tea.
Peppery spice and a nose of violets and roses mark the entry and midpalate of this wine, priced moderately for the appellation. Layered, with a twinge of yeasty baked bread, it has a strong personality, stemmy and feral, with a lasting linger of grenadine.
Caramel toasted oak contributes a concentrated richness to this full-bodied expression of the coast—a dark brooding offering of baked cherry and cola spice. Underlying acidity and specks of forest floor contribute brightness and complexity that pair well with the fruit.
Light and clear in color, this ethereal and delicate wine is earthy, with a brightness of cherries and a woodsy back note. Subtle in alcohol and power, it provides a food-friendly experience of cardamom and rose petals that makes it pretty on the nose and elusive on the palate.
Dank earth, dark berry and cherry are the standouts in this wine, which is a bit more lush than some of the producer's vineyard-designates. Approachable in its acidity and oak, it's a good place to start at a somewhat reasonable entry price.
Bold notions of strawberry and cherry form around a robust core of oak and tannin, giving this rounded, approachable wine a medium to full-figured build. Minty earth follows, an element of herb that's refreshing on the palate and impactful, a sign of its cooler-climate vineyard site.
Muted aromatically, it has a light, bright core of cherry lurking in the layers of juicy spice. The grapes come from the Klindt and Wiley Vineyards. Let it breathe or decant before drinking, and enjoy it soon.
Compostable earth marks the entry of this clonal exploration—a robust, full-bodied and ripely warm wine.With mint, pine and black tea accents, it offers wild raspberry and rhubarb fruit, bringing a homemade pie to mind.
Light in color, with depth and clarity, this wine shines with dusty black cherry and pomegranate flavors and an ethereal texture of tension and earthy acidity. Clove and orange zest touches dot the long finish.
Bolinas-based Sean Thackrey's new project, Cassiopeia is centered on one block from a single Anderson Valley vineyard. His quest was to see what four different Pinot Noir clones on one rootstock, all the same age, and treated otherwise similarly, could become once turned into wine. This, the 114, is lightly rendered, though deceptively full and meaty, tasting of dark cherry and herb.
Feral earth and forest highlight a plush, lush texture of full-bodied ripeness and voluptuous personality in this wine from the famous site. Baked strawberry, raspberry and cherry meet cola and cardamom as buzzing acidity cuts through on the finish.
Seductively tart in lemon pith, cranberry and pomegranate, this refreshing, light-bodied quaff is infinitely enjoyable, both on its own or at the table. It continues to expand on the palate into an increasing array of fresh flavors, finishing in cherry and orange.
Black-cherry compote rises on the entry of this wine that's medium in acidity and use of oak, with a punchy sense of sleek, savory fruit and baking spices. Friendly and fleshy, it's a meatier exploration of the variety by the producer, with a rounded, lengthy finish.
Sanguine and floral, this soft wine exudes waxy plum and cherry around a midweight core of earthiness. Shy in fruit, it finishes with a somewhat diluted character.
Funky and slightly sweet, this wine is somewhat flat on the palate, between soft and spicy layers of classic Russian River Valley cola-cherry and black tea. It finishes on the same theme, without much in the way of acidity.
Light in color and rustically earthy on the nose, this wine offers ripe black cherry and licorice, with a touch of tartness on the finish. It takes on weight and body as it goes, peaking as the wine hits the back of the tongue.
This densely layered wine has an underlying bright acidity and firm structure. Quiet, nuanced cranberry flavors ride a wave of earthy forest and black tea scents.
This is an extracted Pinot Noir with dark, ripe berry flavor with a sourness to the finish and a taste of heat.
Oaky and tannic at first sip, this wine has a softness waiting to let loose on the palate and reveal more floral cherry and raspberry notes. Through and through, the standout characteristic is dried herb, plenty of it, especially on the finish.
A generous expression of full-bodied fruit and oak, this wine is ripe in black cherry, plum and black licorice, robust and flavorful. The finish offers integrated tannins with a hint of cinnamon spice.
Cherry compote and a flair of kirsch preside over well-tended acidity in this full-bodied wine. Earthy lavender and herb give the wine an ethereal character atop solid, velvety texture and a big oak finish.
From a vineyard planted on the edge of Freestone by James MacPhail of MacPhail Family Wines and respected grower Jim Pratt, this wine opens with a splash of white pepper that persists on the soft, silky palate. Roses and black tea provide savory flavor, with an intensity of forest floor.
This smoky, earthy, soft and delicate wine comes from an estate vineyard planted in 1999 in the Occidental Hills. Rose petals and cranberry mingle effortlessly on the silky palate, while a bite of black tea and tannin tease on the finish.
This wine is made from estate-grown grapes and a selection of clones, offering robust dark cherry and berry fruit spiked with cardamom, cola and black tea. Smooth and silky on the palate, it finishes with a trace of tart pomegranate and smoke.
Cola spice dominates the nose of this thick, concentrated wine from the heart of Westside Road. Stemmy earth notes accompany its ripe red fruit, as toasted oak and vanilla flavors extend long into the finish.
This red-fruit-dominated Pinot Noir is a tart, tannic embrace of earthy minerality, with a tease of citrus. Bright, persistent acidity keeps it fresh and forgiving, making it balanced and food-friendly.
Bright waves of cola and clove provide underlying spiciness and freshness to this thick, juicy wine. It explodes on the palate, with crisp red-fruit and orange-peel flavors.
From a site in Green Valley, this crisp, light-bodied offering has a dusty rose aroma and a meaty consistency the provides body without weight. Cranberry and cherry notes form its fruit core, accompanied by a tease of grapefruit.
This bright, light and acid-driven wine is juicy and fresh—a full embrace of tart lemon and tangerine flavors. Its liveliness is long-lived and welcome.
An oaky, concentrated wine, this is briary in robust black and blue fruit that offers a smidgen of black tea. Tannic, this is a powerful wine from a powerful vintage, exuding much of the appellation's earthy signature.
A likeable Pinot from a stalwart Anderson Valley vineyard, this Ferrington is light in color but rich with baked strawberry and violet. With a distinct woodsy component remniscent of forest floor, it's an ideal wine for wintertime meals adorned in mushrooms and herbs. Its finish is particularly sauvage.
Winemaker and owner Chris Pittenger dips into his Campbell Ranch and Baranoff vineyard sources to make this fresh, light style of deliciousness, spiky in acidity and earthy in dark cherry. Additional hits of citrus compel on the palate and nose, before fresh-cut roses take their cue.
From a larger portion of viticulturist Anne Moller-Racke's home vineyard, this wine needs time to unravel itself out of a compact and concentrated funk of cedar and mint. The tannin weight is present and powerful. Roses and wild raspberries form a pact of flavor and beguiling aromatic invitation.
Domaine Carneros' entry-level, estate-grown Pinot is intensely earthy and herbal, grippy on the back palate, a swirl of approachable blackberry, black cherry and sweet oak.
From the Nunes Vineyard, this robust red is concentrated in black cherry, tar and cinnamon spice, full bodied from having been cradled in French oak, 20% of it new. The acidity and body are both medium level, while the ripeness is high.
Earthy and brawny in pungent compost aromas, this wine has a citrus-laden edge of crisp mineral and bitterroot. Full-bodied and richly layered, its fruit components are dipped in baked rhubarb and black tea.
Once known as Nugent Vineyard, Winside is a blend of Dijon and Pommard clones that's on the more robust side, especially in this climatically perfect vintage. Offering exuberant red cherry fruit and layers of cola and milk chocolate, it's ready to enjoy with pork tenderloin and similarly hearty fare.
Earthy, spicy and big-boned in rich tones of ripe black cherry, licorice and mocha, the wine is fully developed in weight, well-integrated in tannins and hearty, with plenty of power and mouthfilling fruit.
This is one of the producer's more full-bodied wines, a blend from several sites along Eastside Road, including Calegari, Foss and a new source—Lewis MacGregor Estate. Rich, round and plush, it's as strong as black coffee in its marriage of earthy allspice, baked cherry, blueberry and smoke. Moderate acidity allows for an underlying minerality.
Smooth and medium-bodied, this is a rounded, lovely expression of rhubarb compote and black tea that's softly layered on the palate. Rose petals invite first before wild blueberry and nutmeg make their mark, supported by juicy acidity and a grippy length of tannin.
This wine hails from the Sonoma Coast sections of the Russian River Valley and Petaluma Gap. It delivers in terms of price-versus-quality by opening with strong scents of earth and black plum baked in cinnamon and clove. Light, it's soft on the palate and finishes lean.
Elusive aromatically, this wine begins to show hints of violet and rose as it opens, comforting whiffs that ride over powerfully, pillowy tannins. Savory in style, and fairly light bodied, it's a round, soft wine with a lot of juicy red cherry.
Pungent earth and forest floor surround big oak, full-figured body and a yeasty baked-bread quality. These are layered against soft tannins that pop big and hard on the finish.
A generic expression of the variety with some notions of ripe plum, dark cherry and black pepper, this straightforward wine is ready to drink now. It takes on full tannic strength on the finish.
Smoky funkiness permeates this wine, which is lean on the palate and mushy in terms of structure. Cherry and pepper are the most distinguishable characteristics before the quick finish.
There's a bitterness within this wine, a taste of tobacco and tomato leaf that lords over subtle blackberry, black cherry, plum and a healthy dose of cinnamon and pepper. Medium bodied, it finishes flat.
On the thin side of light-bodied, this has an abundance of oak that overpowers the subtle fruit in this wine from an estate property in a relatively warm appellation. Ripe dark cherry takes on a baked quality here.
This producer owns the coveted vineyard designation, selecting some fantastic fruit that yields a wine that is intense in black cherry and forest floor, accented by wild mushroom. The style is substantial and generous in ripeness and oak, mouthfillingly rich and lushly layered, yet elegant on the finish. Cellaring, through 2020, should soften its edges.
From the cooler reaches of the Petaluma Gap, a sub-area of the larger Sonoma Coast that is awaiting its own appellation status, this Pinot was made with 25% whole-cluster berries, giving it a rough-hewn, earthy edginess that's appealing in the glass. Tightly wound cherry and cranberry complete the picture, with a taste of dried herb and black tea on the lengthy finish.
Made in a full-bodied style, this estate wine is generous in blackberry, black licorice and dark cherry, with classic cola spice dancing around its edges. Smooth and memorable, it is made from a handful of vineyards, including Nicole's, Bow Tie and Robert Thomas, all vineyard-designates of their own for the producer.
Punchy, sizable tannins make this wine a beast at first. It's dry on the palate, yet sultry, well-defined layers of dark cherry and toasty vanilla-oak manage to persist around seasonings of minty dried herb and cinnamon. From a well-known vineyard high atop what is called the Petaluma Gap, it's characteristically robust and age-worthy, able to cellar through 2022.
Earthy black tea and clove are the highlights in this medium-bodied, moderately oaked wine, a fruity undercurrent of black cherry and strawberry lifting the savory, sassy elements to a bright core.
Big and robust in ripe black cherry and a richness of vanilla, this wine is full-bodied and then some, imparting plenty of tannin and structure. Forest floor, spicy cardamom and smoky cola give definition to the weight.
Velvety and thick, this wine is tannic, oaky and still tenacious about its youth. Spicy cardamom, violet and dried herb notes make it more earthy than fruit-driven, begging for complementary fare at the table. Raspberry, black cherry and blackberry flavors vie for attention.
Velvety, rich and intense upon first sip, this is a lively, well-built wine, held back in bottle and offering layers of blackberry, black cherry, anise and sage flavor. Fruity and feral, it delivers a lot of nuance within its powerful presentation.
This is sourced from a longstanding, well-respected vineyard, and it does the windswept, foggy site justice. Tightly woven and youthful, it shows broad, juicy black cherry, wild strawberry, baking spice, compost and brawny oak flavors.
Made in a more extracted, fuller style, this is overwhelmingly earthy and intensely aromatic. Its time in oak has not quite shaken off entirely, and its fruit expression veers on the darker side, with notes of black cherries and blueberries standing out the most. An herbal aura lingers around.
A blend from several of the producer's finest vineyards, including Georganne, Flax, Olivet Lane and Klopp, this offers complex notes of smoky lavender and licorice. Velvety texture underlies mouth-coating flavors of blackberry jam, pomegranate and cardamom, finishing tartly in acidity.
This is an inaugural release from this site, an ocean-viewing, high-elevation perch overlooking the Pacific Ocean that loves the variety. A sanguine element rides a canopy of dense, thick forest floor and dark cherry compote, the tannins and oak sizable and present. A length of cardamom provides a memorable spiciness to the finish.
Fairly light in color and body, this wine sings in fresh cranberry and orange before revealing a meatier underbelly of black tea and sautéed mushroom. Finessed and vibrant in minerality, it has pretty rose and fresh-picked cherry characters that dance on the palate as it evolves and unravels provocatively in the glass.
The producer's larger-production offering, this in no way suffers from not having a vineyard designated. Instead, it shows the prowess of blending, delivering a big, bold style with elegance and grace. Tangy cranberry and orange rind wrap themselves around powerful acidity and a silky body, finishing with notes of earth and cardamom.
A silky, compelling wine full of minerality, this comes from a gradually sloping site within the larger estate ranch, where the soils are tightly packed and volcanic, and the air often drenched in fog. Silky on the palate, the red-fruit profile is crunchy and juicy, the body medium in terms of strength and length.
This is a structured, full-bodied, generously layered wine, named for the soil in which its grapevines are grown. This is primarily on hillsides, where the fruit takes on a brooding quality of spiciness and texture. Baked cherry, cranberry and rose petals stand out most, as additional nuances of earthiness come into play in the glass.
Named for an apple variety once common to the area, this vineyard sits outside the town of Graton in Green Valley and was developed in 2007. Elegant and weighty, it shows a youthful tightness of tannin and oak, its savory twists of black tea, blackberry and rhubarb compote chomping at the bit to be enjoyed. The acidity is mouthwatering.
This estate-grown wine comes from the vineyard that provides the backbone to the producer's well-known Les Pommiers Pinot Noir. Tart in rhubarb, pomegranate and plush, herb-kissed red fruit, it's juicy and young, complex yet approachable. Full bodied and grainy in tannin, it'll provide years of pleasure for drinkers who can wait.
This earthy, cool-climate wine is perfumed in a delicate layering of rose and spice, with subtle additions of brown sugar, tart cranberry and rhubarb. The oak is muted and supportive, while the body is light and bright.
Earthy and brimming with black tea, this is an exotic, medium-bodied wine. The palate starts off tangy in cranberry and strawberry flavors, with a hint of mint, while a forested, mushroomy underbelly provides extra complexity and a savory component.
Sanguine and meaty, this big-shouldered wine from a prime site on Westside Road showcases a ripeness of black cherry accented in forest floor, cola and cardamom. Mellow oak contributes softness to the texture as a length of licorice takes over at the end.
Tightly wound and floral, this wine has bright acidity with earthy cola and clove accents. Medium bodied, with some heft on the palate, it's ripe and rewarding in cherry and berry fruit flavors.
Velvety-smooth and rich in red plum and strawberry, this medium-bodied, varietally honest wine is textured and complex. It's well-crafted and balanced, with a lingering finish.
Called 3BB because it combines the three best barrels of the vintage, this is an earthy Pinot, soft, round and highlighted in cinnamon spice and electric acidity, especially on the finish. The fruit leans toward darker, lusher black cherry, a flavor that takes some time to develop aromatically.
Dark black cherry dominates the mood of this wine, lively and light, with a delicate, unexpected punch of spicy cinnamon throughout and a tension of toned oak balanced against the fruit.
Light in color and spicy cherry fruit, it offers layers of oak and earth that compete for attention. The wine is a blend of three clones, including Pommard, which reveals itself in the wine's forested and floral character. Concentrated and relatively lush, it should stand the test of time and air; try from 2017–2019.
This is an abundantly ripe wine, big in oak and tannin, with a streak of earthy compost. A tinge of spearmint brightens the palate, while persistent acidity graces the close.
A sourness of bitter black tea overtakes a shyness of fruit in this light-bodied wine that holds on to its tannin with tenacity.
This fresh, supple Pinot comes from a cool Russian River Valley site overlapping the Sonoma Coast AVA. Jenkins sits above the fog line and is rich in Goldridge soils. The wine is lightly mushroomy in earth, and a keen streak of exotic spiciness kicks in convincingly on the finish, after intense and complicated layers of red cherry, raspberry and lavender.
Round and rich, this wine takes on renewed complexity in the glass. Seductive in earthy red and black berry fruit and exotic spice, it offers naturally realized structure in a stylized package that should remain interesting for years.
Made from three vineyards within the appellation, this displays exemplary blending. Slightly reductive now, in its youth, it effortlessly melds together dark blackberry, strawberry and chocolate flavors, with a surly shock of pine forest-like earthiness. Decadent and velvety.
Kathleen Inman has gained such a following with her Rosé that she's given it a special designation, a nod to her happy marriage. Made in a direct-press style, the dry, refreshing wine is light salmon in color and marked by aromatic grapefruit and strawberry, mouthfilling and juicy as a slice of watermelon in summer.
This is a tiny production wine, nutty on the nose in almond paste and an intensity of forest floor and earth. Still gritty in its youth, it shows a soft and delicate nature at its core, accented in rose petal and a persistent streak of minerality complemented by a richness of deep dark red cherry.
Marked by both reduction and oak, this wine feels lifted with acidity, opening in a vibrant shock of strawberry and Mandarin orange. Velvety layers subtle tannin carry a spicy finish of clove and salty sea air. A beautifully balanced, complete wine.
A best-of blend from several of the producer's vineyard sites, this wine explodes in flavor and complexity as though celebrating each site's individual beauty and potential. Black pepper and crisp orange and pomegranate flavors show through its layered and focused texture—a savory package with a seemingly endless finish.
This wine shows a high degree of spiciness with a rose petal-like flourish—a stellar first effort from a new estate vineyard along Eastside Road. Brambly raspberry and dark cherry flavors seem brushed by a subtle waft of campfire smoke and molten chocolate, all swirling together in the glass as a lengthy, lively palate framed by acidity.
An estate bottled Pinot, this wine is inviting in floral and fruity characteristics, offering concise layers of red cherry, rose petals and a spark of oak that builds in intensity through the finish. This is a nice place to start on the winery's lineup of Carneros-Napa Valley Pinot Noir.
The winery's high-end cuvée, this is a five-barrel blend, three of the barrels new. Dancing in cardamom and dark cherry, the background ripe and toasty, the flavors are exotic and long lingering. There's a tension and intensity to this wine that bests speaks to aging, or a full decant; either way, it'll be delicious.
The winery's most accessible and available Pinot Noir—still quite small in production—is from several vineyards, including single-vineyard sites like Jenkins. It offers classic Russian River Valley cola spice and bright aromatics and acidity, the texture soft and structured, a smaller percentage of new French oak used for aging.
Light-bodied and yet offering a depth of complexity, this is resplendent in rhubarb and spicy anise, layered and textured in silky waves of fleshy flavor. A well balanced and approachable selection that's enjoyable now.
Here is an austere Pinot Noir that's both elegant and high-toned. The flavors mix black cherry and blueberry, while the finish is blithely earthy and herbal. A nice choice for mealtimes of an equally elegant nature, or an easy lunch of BLTs.
From an estate-farmed vineyard, this medium-bodied wine is earthy and aromatic in baked bread, with soft, moderate acidity. With length and breadth, it shows a tartness of black tea and stems, finishing in oak.
Compost, earth and spicy cardamom notes provide the savory intrigue of this full-bodied, expressive wine, with additional pine forest, pomegranate and orange peel flavors that add to its complexity and appeal. Sourced from several vineyards in the heart of the appellation, it represents the vintage and the location well.
Juicy, tart and crisp with acidity, this is a standout vineyard designate with a bold, velvety texture. Blue fruit-driven, it's full-bodied and fleshy in all the best ways, with a plush finish that teases with cardamom and tea.
Named for the winery's co-proprietor and founder, Lynn's is powerfully graceful, much like the man himself, offering seamless texture and length. Full bodied and complex, it's structured and ripely satisfying in its mix of black tea, grenadine and feral evocations of a walk in the woods.
Crisp undercurrents of tangerine, grapefruit and cranberry provide a brightness and light to this wine, which is velvety-smooth on the palate. An inaugural release for the producer from this vineyard, it bristles with cinnamon and clove, delving into black pepper spiciness as well. Drink this structured wine now through 2023.
From the 1,400-elevation Van der Kamp Vineyard, this wine conveys roses and black tea, along with a woodsy, truffle-like character. While powerfully round and soft, it offers elegance in abundance, alongside a swatch of fresh-dug earth and a thick finish of forest floor. Drink now through 2022.
This dense, full-bodied wine exhibits characteristics of savory dried cranberry and pomegranate as well as an earthy sense of rose and herb. The contrast reaches its apex on the slightly sour finish.
Rich, thick and robust, this offers a mélange of black cherry and strawberry. A fruity element dominates over any savory varietal character.
Made in a full-bodied and fleshy style, this comes from an estate vineyard long owned by the producer. Cloudy, with a distinct fresh cherry aroma, it opens with leathery tannins and pronounced oak notes before its bright, citrus-like acidity settles in.
This creamy, lush wine expresses orange and tangerine fruit mostly, with slight cherry and strawberry accents. High-toned acidity lifts the riper, plush mouthfeel.
From a replanted block of the vineyard, this wine is zesty, savory and high in acidity. With a backbone of stony texture and a deep core of licorice and strawberry flavors, it's bold in tannins and intensity, yet finishes bright.
Earth and black tea meet forest floor notes in this dark, brooding and powerfully full-bodied wine. A touch of reduction accentuates the profuse oak, recalling clove and cardamom, as tingling acidity vies for attention and integration.
This is a dry, tannic estate wine that's rich and ripe with a leathery aspect of gun smoke and blackberry. It shows more in the way of black fruit and spicy pepper than fruit that's delicate or crisp.
Spicy, fruity and fresh, this hearty vineyard-designate is high-toned in red cherry and citrus, well-integrated and softly layered, with a blistering note of tannic power on the finish. Drink now through 2020.
From one of the Benziger family's coolest-climate vineyards, and one that is Demeter-certified Biodynamic, there's a richness of cherry amid subtle aromatics of rose and cinnamon spice. A delicate wine that's light in texture, it offers earthiness and a long, balanced finish.
High-toned red fruit wraps around jolts of black tea in this savory, structured and nicely made vineyard-designate, a full-bodied, burly wine. Drinking well upon opening, it develops nuance and character in the glass as it goes along.
This is a light, clear and moderately oaked vineyard-designate from a tremendous Westside Road site. Pomegranate, rhubarb and cherry-orange play on the palate in lithe, ethereal and elegant ways, remaining light bodied and refined throughout.
Muddled in a waft of spicy cola and wet forest-floor aromas, this wine has a funkiness on the nose and palate and a warmth to the finish that's hard to fathom.
With grapes sourced 60% from Sonoma County and 40% from Mendocino County, this is a soft, floral wine with a bright finish. A sister brand made by Martin Ray, it's priced affordably and will offer a pleasant experience for most palates.
Fruity in a grapy, plummy way, this is a substantial wine with deceptively sweet undertones that finishes dry and with a slight tang of black tea.
From several of the producer's estate vineyards, this wine traffics in spicy, leathery texture and robust full-bodied power, layering in more tart savory characteristics of rhubarb, dark cherry and orange. The tannins are firm and supportive, taking on a velvety sheen.
A light, clear color suggests a lighthearted wine, but this coastal vineyard-designate delivers plenty of power around a core of damp, earthy wild strawberry and blackberry. Soft, with managed and integrated tannins, it's relatively high in acidity and is well structured, with a pleasant jamminess and aromas of freshly cut rose.
Medium-bodied and nicely integrated layers of cassis, black cherry and cola spice are on offer in this barrel selection of a single-vineyard designate. It's fleshy and velvety with a bite of acidity swirling throughout. It builds additional power and adds legs on the finish, and will cellar well, through 2022.
Jean Hoefliger is the consulting winemaker for this wine, an earthy 100% expression of the variety that's rich and lush yet fully balanced in acidity. Dark truffle, forest floor and Bing cherry characterize the aromas and flavors, around a tightly wound core of intense fruit that explodes on the palate on the finish.
Juicy, soft and sublime, this vineyard site sits on the extreme Sonoma Coast, near the town of Annapolis, approaching the Mendocino County line. Fine tannins and bright acidity combine for a memorable taste experience, marked in fresh strawberry, raspberry and black pepper.
This is a spicy, vibrantly realized wine from a coastal ridge five miles from the Pacific Ocean dusted in sandy, loam soils. It's planted entirely to the Swan clone, which can contribute an undeniable wildness to the variety. Baked cherry meets spearmint and clove, the acidity light and bright with plenty of texture atop the medium-sized body.
Cherry pie and nuanced spice flavors buoy this delicately layered, medium-bodied vineyard designate that's built of robust fruit and supported quietly by oak. A thread of white pepper persists throughout, making it especially irresistible.
Earthy in cranberry and pomegranate, this is a new vineyard-designate offering from the producer, light in texture and tannin imprint. Soft, it gets meatier and denser in intensity through the finish, with a backbone of acidity and grip.
Shy and reserved, this cool-climate wine opens coyly with a burst of spearmint on the nose, evolving into layers of flavor steeped in rhubarb, black cherry and tea. Soft and lilting, the wine's finish conjures thoughts of strawberry cream.
This is a young, meaty Pinot, a bottle of substantial red cherry, earthy mushroom and soil that's bright and layered with a heartiness to the texture and finish. The back label mentions that the grapes were sourced from Bacigalupi Vineyards, a longstanding star in the Russian River Valley.
This wine is quite clear in the glass and a touch tart on the palate, finding its way to a full-bodied, slightly flabby and gummy texture and sense of heaviness.
Strawberry and a rich streak of raspberry liqueur play nice in this fresh, zesty Pinot. Tight with tension on the palate, it also features layers of earthy forest-floor mushroom. Big in style, it comes together nicely and makes for an enjoyable wine.
This is an earthy, chalky wine, medium bodied and silky in wild strawberry, garden herb and fresh mint notes. From estate-grown Pinot, it is a balanced, accessible selection to drink now.
Bread-like, yeasty aromas adorn a simple thickness of smoky char, dark cherry and bold concentration in this wine, which seems heartier than the varietal tends to be.
This is an elegant Pinot Noir, aromatic in cherry and raspberry with juicy acidity and a memorable finish, understated in alcohol and too-ripe flavors. Earthy, enjoy it with lamb or pork smothered in mushrooms and herbs.
Perfumed, bold and brambly, this is a full-bodied and fairly-priced rendition of the variety that's big in cherry cola flavor, earthy mint and oak.
Blue fruit and high acidity open this delightful Pinot Noir, from a cool section of the Russian River Valley overlapping Green Valley. The oak imprint is low, yet the wine offers firm structure and elegance, remaining subdued and fresh on the palate in swirls of dark cherry, boysenberry and earthy leather.
There's an intensity of cola-cinnamon spice and clove within the aromas and flavors of this single-vineyard designate, intriguing invites to explore further. Pure, crisp and focused raspberry and earth follow, with a subtle use of oak that allows the fruit and varietal exoticness to speak.
Light in color, this delicate wine is herbal and yet bright in Bing cherry, quite nuanced and slight at first, unveiling its concentration and complexity slowly and seductively over time. Made by longtime grape growers, the acidity is lively and the weight slim, traces of restrained oak and garden herb dancing in the background. Only 54 cases made.
Offering a strong opening aroma of pine resin, this wine feels crisp and crunchy on the palate, with cranberry, pomegranate and red cherry flavors. Both complex and varietal, it has a tannic backbone of power and ripeness beneath its fruit, accented with black tea.
Dusty plum flavors meet baked bread aromas in this tightly-wound, tense vineyard-designated wine. It's marked by an undercurrent of pomegranate and rhubarb, the texture taking on more savory tones of forest and black tea as it finishes.
A waft of freshly baked baguette unfurls on the nose of this wine, followed by sautéed mushroom scents, giving it earthy character. Soft and round on the palate, the fruit tends toward darker, lusher notes of blueberry and plum.
Soft, juicy acidity and texture buoy this wine in wonderful ways, providing a lithe foundation to punches of sassafras and truffled earth. Sourced from the famous vineyard on Westside Road in the northern reaches of the appellation, it shows off a flair of pine along with dark cherry.
This is a hearty version of the variety for this producer, known for its oft-lighter approach. It reveals skill as well, the grapes from another prime site overseen by brand partner Bill Price. A feral shock of mushroom dominates on the nose before punchy tannins and a medium-body distract slightly in contoured texture, only barely letting in crisp flavors of orange peel and dark cherry.
Sauvage aromas of forest dominate on the nose of this well-made wine, showing off intriguing notes of clove, black tea and sarsaparilla before unleashing a velvet carpet's worth of cherry and cranberry. Spicy and savory are the coins of the realm here, with bright acidity underlying it all.
This well-made, well-priced wine over-delivers in terms of quality. Smoky cherry and plum accentuate the toasted oak, as a sturdy foundation of tannin gives it power and strength. The savory finish mixes forest and tea.
Dark reddish-orange in color, this medium-bodied rosé offers refreshing acidity against a dramatic backdrop of intensely etched flavors, a mix of dark cherry, strawberry and blood orange that refreshes and rewards.
Damp forest and dried cherry with cranberry combine on the nose and palate in this wine, sourced predominantly from Monterey County. Soft and silky it risks veering off balance once the oak begins to unwrap, becoming quite burly on the finish.
Copper-orange-pink in color, this wonderfully summery wine offers tart citrus and gravelly minerality, a taste of wet stone coated in just the right amount of sweetness.
Earth and spice make for a nice entry and flavor profile into this wine. However it becomes thin and somewhat diluted on the palate.
A new effort from Jigar Vineyards, sourcing some very good grapes, Sedition is light, clear and lingering on the palate in cherry-cola, mint and dried herb. Balanced and on the lighter side in terms of body and tannin, it's ready for the table, with a juicy, persistent finish.
Light in color, this wine offers fresh but concentrated dark berry and cherry flavors and strong black tea and rose petal aspects. The acidity is moderate and supportive.
Blended from eight separate vineyards, this appellation wine doesn't hold back on quality. It offers a seamless, integrated foundation of juicy cherry, cranberry and orange flavors, dusted with cardamom spice.
Named for the producer's farmhouse and its surrounding vineyard, this offers rich cherry cordial and weedy sage notes—a seamless mix of fruit and earth. Sage, cardamom and spicy white pepper flavors give it intrigue and complexity, wrapped in a thick, velvety texture.
This estate-grown wine mixes earthy strawberry and raspberries against a tannic backbone that lends plenty of strength. Let it unwind a while in the glass.
A robust structure of tannin and oak in this fuller-bodied wine masks the finer components of black cherry and blackberry fruit that lurk underneath layers of tobacco and cigar box.
Clear and light in color and texture, this offers an inviting floral and citrus bouquet, while the palate flirts with Asian five-spice and black cherry. While the fruit is compelling, the structure is undefined and the finish a tad flat.
Rich, thick and swimming in youthful tannin, this is a powerful statement from the producer's estate, a broad-shouldered explosion of fruity and savory flavors. Spicy tea, pomegranate and black cherry mingle around a tartness of grapefruit and blood orange, coalescing into a balanced whole.
Light in color this is a delicious Pinot Noir, woodsy and invoking faint red cherry aromas and flavors laced in herb. Softly textured and silky, enjoy on its own or with a roast chicken dripping in rosemary and butter.
A jammy, big-boned Pinot that's soft in blackberry and raspberry on the palate and hearty enough to enjoy on its own. Fans of bigger styles of wine will be pleased.
A tiny-production wine from a windblown ridge in the Petaluma Gap, Badger Block is earthy and piquant in wild strawberry. Spicy and soft, it's almost velvety on the palate. Persistent in depth and length, the body is generous but balanced, spiked with the scent of fresh-picked rose petals.
From a tiny, organically farmed vineyard outside of Occidental, this wine is dense in earth, with a brambly nose of wild cherry and cranberry. Salty and herbal, it retains plenty of acidity on the light-bodied palate, offering a mix of cinnamon and tangerine on the finish.
There's a burly amount of black fruit and black tea in this estate wine, concentrated and coiled in a tight tannic structure. The fruit tends toward ripe black cherry and even blackberry, the texture is soft and the finish delightfully marked by a touch of chocolate.
A very earthy Pinot Noir with tinges of mushroom and leather. This is a fine, sipping wine that's concentrated and smooth. A perfect companion to rustic foods, like pork tenderloin or richly sauced pulled-pork sandwiches.
From the Ferrington and Monument Tree Vineyards, the latter now owned by Twomey, this delicate Pinot has an aura of baked bread on the nose followed by just-ripe Bing cherry. With firm tannins and a subtle texture, it is a delight to drink and to pair. You couldn't go wrong with a pork roast swaddled in mushrooms.
Goldeneye's estate-grown Pinot, much of it from Gowan Creek Vineyard, this wine is intended to be the best blend from the best barrels. Powerful, with a ripe mouthful of blueberry, it is framed well by oak, giving it a roasted quality and suggestion of forest floor.
What stands out about Confluence most is its wealth of plush mushroom and woodsy earth accenting the otherwise rich, ripe, black cherry flavor. Powerful, it offers Anderson Valley's nuances, a dash of spice and bright acidity.
From a cool site, The Narrows is rich in ripe, dark cherry and a touch of herb, offering concentrated and intense flavors, with plenty of acidity to pair alongside a dish like roast pork tenderloin with rosemary or Quiche Lorraine.
Earthy with subtle Asian spice and forest floor scents, this wine is medium in build and generous in tannin, still untangling its limbs in the glass.
With a reductive quality and prominent oak, this is a thick, concentrated wine built on unwavering tannins. The fruit is elusive and shy. Clove and cola eke out of an earthy element that's part rose garden, part smoke and eucalyptus.
Dry and weighty at first on the palate, this wine is ultimately tart and tangy, awash in grippy acidity sparked by flavors of cherry and lime.
This is a smooth, well-mannered and distinctly varietal wine, richly rewarding in cola spice and earthy black tea, with a juicy finish.
Delicately floral in aroma, this soft, earthy Pinot offers blue and red berry fruit that are layered and generous on the finish. Food-friendly, it has the heft to stand up to bigger, bolder flavors on the plate or suffice as a sipping wine on its own.
Dark red in color this Pinot has a sweetness on the nose and is otherwise flat, not offering much in terms of flavor, texture or finish.
From a vineyard farmed by Ted Klopp of Klopp Ranch, this is a light, spicy vineyard-designate, silky smooth in crisp red cherry and berry. A streak of fresh-picked herb overlays the soft wine, which finishes with a taste of wet stone-like minerality.
Pungent, spicy earth and cinnamon rise out of the wine's bouquet, inviting one to enjoy a structured expression of cranberry, raspberry and black tea. The tannin structure is well managed and the oak strong, yet integrated. Gap's Crown is among the vineyards that figure into the blend, along with several Dutton family properties. This is fresh and focused.
Silky smooth and delicate, this comes from a long-standing family-run winery in the heart of the appellation. It's a subtle, floral wine offering layers of dark plum and strawberry. Medium-weight and tangy in acidity, black tea and toffee notes linger on the finish.
Three Sixty comes from four blocks of the Bucher Vineyard, planted to a range of clones. Made in small amounts, it offers a wealth and breadth of black cherry, vanilla and smoky oak, the tannins softened and well integrated into the whole. It takes on savory aspects of coffee and clove as it opens.
Earthy forest floor and sage notes make for a savory experience in this otherwise juicy wine. Robust, full-bodied and concentrated, it offers developed flavors of baked plum, strawberry and rhubarb compote, the fruit edged with menthol.
From four vineyard sites across the appellation, this coastal wine shows an intriguing note of rose petal and turned earth before unleashing full-bodied waves of chewy, cool-climate tannin. Its rhubarb and red cherry fruit has a savory edge; acidity carries it long into the finish.
From a two-acre site at 1,110-feet elevation only five miles from the Pacific Ocean, this wine opens as if it were a lovely, expansive rose garden, so fragrant and intensely earthy. Built with sizable tannic structure and toasty oak, it features burly waves of spicy acidity and warm baking spices, exhibiting both tension and grace. Drink now through 2023.
The inaugural offering of this block-designate is dark and brooding, with tightly constructed, sizable tannins and oak still pronounced on the palate. Time should develop its floral notes of rose and orange peel, with accents of tea, cranberry and pomegranate. Cellar through 2017.
Light, clear color betrays a balanced, vibrant wine, nicely weighted in ripe Bing cherry and raspberry. The ethereal nature of things take on body and oak midway through, and a satisfying, herbal earthiness of cola spice. Enjoy through 2022.
Elegant, yet still brimming in meaty tannins, this wine offers deftness on entry, diving deeper into blueberry cobbler and baked bread as it goes. On the nose, roses and cinnamon entice, while mid-weight oak and licorice pull in more savory directions. Ideal through 2021.
A lovely bouquet of dusty rose petals marks the entry of this delightful wine. Softly textured, it's subtle in tannin and oak, with interweaving swathes of black tea and grenadine-intense cherry. Medium bodied, it remains silky and fresh through the lengthy finish.
This is a gentle giant of a wine, subtle and sublime in earthy rose petals, allspice and black tea that maintain a spiky, lively acidity throughout. Blueberry and black cherry compete for attention, balancing the grapes' more savory intentions, before a smoothly intense finish rides things out.
Pleasantly pungent in ripe damson plum, this Pinot has lovely acidity, giving it a spicy mouthfeel around firmly present tannins. Full-bodied midpalate, the wine mellows through to the finish, ending in juicy fruit and earth.
Nicole's is a consistent stunner, upholding its reputation just fine with this vintage, a vibrant and spicy take on rich, robust cherry and black raspberry that's both juicy and smooth. The finish wraps up nicely with a take on dark chocolate and mint.
From one block of the estate vineyard planted exclusively to Dijon clone 667, Paige's is deep and dark in color, intense in oak and earthiness, almost a quarter of it undergoing whole cluster fermentation. As intense on the palate as it is darkly hued, it offers brambly blackberry and dark cherry around a core of wild Tahitian vanilla and cinnamon-cardamom spice.
Elegant and well structured, this offers vibrant strawberry fruit wrapped around inviting aromatics of violet and spice. This cool-climate Pinot boasts a silky texture on the palate and finishes with subtle suggestions of wood smoke and cinnamon.
This is a tight, extracted and focused wine generous in dark red fruit and forested earth. A thickness and density make it mouthfilling, juicy and most definitely full bodied. The finish is a mix of tobacco and black tea.
Elusive raspberry tries to find its way to the fore of this big-bodied Pinot, its time in oak apparent yet integrated. Savory herb notes provide a complexity and balance against the dark cherry fruit, rounding out a wine that has girth but also finesse.
Waxy cherry and pomegranate invite the senses before a taste of dried cranberry wafts in, layering itself on top of velvety, silky tannins. Juicy and well-composed, it hails from an appellation not known for the variety. In the hands of this producer, also a fine craftsman of Cabernet, this wine simply sings.
From an estate-farmed vineyard, this medium-bodied wine is earthy and aromatic in baked bread, with soft, moderate acidity. With length and breadth, it shows a tartness of black tea and stems, finishing in oak.
A limited-production wine made to commemorate the Supreme Court ruling on marriage equality, this full-bodied vineyard-designated wine is softly layered in bold, rich huckleberry pie and strawberry flavors. Juicy on the palate, the fruit is seasoned with clove, cola and a hint of earth.
A fairly priced varietal wine, this shows currant, cranberry, raisin and a flurry of allspice on the nose. It takes on rose petal and lavender aromas as it opens, making it all the more pleasant and memorable.
Spicy earth meets baked plum and cherry in this medium-bodied wine sourced from multiple sites, including Sangiacomo Vineyards. Mint and lavender scents emerge on the nose before stronger elements of tobacco take over on the finish.
This is a touch overripe and plummy, akin to a puree on the nose. Smoky oak lurks behind the fruit, along with a taste of almond and tea. In the end, the wine ends robustly and full-figured, with plenty of power and concentration to the finish.
Dark and full-bodied in style and taste, this savory wine offers leathery tannins and value for the quality. Wild berries rise to the fore on the nose and palate, with a floral rejoinder and herbal, woodsy notes.
This wine opens in candied ginger and orange peel, invitingly light in color and weight, with elegance at its core. Silky texture wraps around plum, sage and that classic notion of forest floor.
Softly floral and brightly spicy, this wine rocks in red cherry and tangy citrus, sure to please a broad range of palates in its approachable elegance and restraint. Toasted vanilla oak rounds out the finish.
This is a concentrated wine, ripe and rich in black cherry, cranberry and oak. It resolves itself into a lighter texture and body on the finish.
This small-production, nouveau-style wine was made without oak or filtering. Simple and juicy, it's festive, with effusive dried cranberry and cola spice notes that are soft and easygoing.
Expansive, long and tannic, this wine is robust and powerfully concentrated, the flavors a mixture of tart cranberry, raspberry and black tea.
Perfumed and strikingly floral, this soft, seductive Pinot is light in color and body, with handsome layerings of strawberry fruit, Asian spice and suggestions of just-unearthed mushrooms or a newly minted Christmas wreath. On the finish, a touch of vanilla-tinged oak rounds things out.
A rustic nose gives way to a touch of clove and Asian spice, as full-bodied, robustly ripe baked plum and cherry generously provide flavor and power on the palate. The spiciness lingers on the finish.
Reduced, and cradled in big oak, this wine is spiky and savory, intense and tart, with a densely overripe notion of syrupy cherry and berry.
This Lodi-based producer shows skill in handling Carneros-grown fruit, putting together a medium-bodied, deliciously earthy wine. It's leathery in texture and exuberant in cardamom, strawberry and burnt orange flavors.
A brooding, textured Pinot Noir with some weight to it, deep in dark cherry and blackberry aromas and flavors, with a finish of roses and spice. This wine is aching to be paired with savory mushrooms.
The Emerson Block is a one-acre collection of east-west facing rows that debuted as its own wine in 2012. It exudes aromas of violets and lavender, with additional hints of white pepper, grenadine and leather, all within a bright streak of acidity.
This bottling comes from two Pinot clones planted within a 6.5-acre vineyard in Blucher Valley, a frigid, low-yielding site. On the edge of ripeness, the wine is unusual in orange pith, cranberry and pomegranate with a vividly tangy crispness. Soy, balsam and pine tar provide an edgy character that adds complexity and texture.
The second vintage by this producer from this highly regarded vineyard, this wine shows how racy the site can be, cooled from Petaluma Gap winds and fog and yet also robustly capable of ripe, rich red fruit. Measured acidity buoys a densely concentrated wine chewy and bright in pine, dark cherry, cranberry, strawberry and earth. The finish is lean and citrusy. Drink now through 2023.
Dark fruit shows on the palate in this exotically spiced and floral blend from several vineyards, including Sangiacomo Roberts Road. Soft and medium in weight, it has high-toned acidity underneath the brooding spice and forest floor.
This likable wine has juicy and bright core, a mix of spicy cola-cherry and forest floor nested in firm, integrated tannins that works seamlessly on the palate. A full-bodied wine, it has power and grace.
From the producer best known for its own Anderson Valley estate wines, this Pinot is varietally rustic in pine needle, dark, baked plum and smoky oak, the oak stylistically reminiscent of many of its other wines. Mellowed acidity complements the burliness and ripeness of the fruit before a lengthy, Asian-spiced finish.
This blend from several sites is leathery and peppery, with a thick concentration of orange peel, cranberry and blueberry. It shows its fruity side well, mingling with just enough savory to pique the palate in a well-made, light-bodied package.
This floral wine opens as if in a damp but not wet forest, surrounded by ripe, red cherry trees. Likable from the start, it's grippy on the palate, expressively juicy, seductive and refined. Blackberry and dried herb pop on the finish, providing a darker side to the red fruit.
From a cool Forestville vineyard once devoted to apples, Appian Way is rich in Goldridge soils, providing a happy home to these grapes that offer a core of pomegranate and cranberry, laced in black tea. Light bodied without being wimpy, the wine is complex and velvety, finishing in nutmeg and ginger.
Stemmy earth and dark, savory pine give in to sautéed mushroom and cinnamon in this lean, soft and delicious estate-grown wine. A tension of acidity buoys a backdrop of wild strawberry and cranberry on the palate, ending with just the right amount of weight and length, succulent to the end.
The vineyard from which this wine is sourced sits along the Gualala River in view of the Pacific Ocean, enjoying coastal weather and elevations of up to 1,100 feet. Baked blueberry pie laced with clove is the first impression, supported by bright acidity. Exotic in profile, it imparts cedar and tea notes, its tannins fine yet tenacious.
Earthy and dark fruit-driven, this is a richly rewarding, fruity wine, ripe in blackberry, clove and cocoa. From an estate vineyard named for Benovia proprietor's two mothers, Martha and Eleanor, it offers the appellation's classic elements of savory clove and cola.
Perfumed in rose garden and earthy compost, this effusively aromatic wine is tightly wound in oak. Yet it's youthful in characteristics of wild strawberry, tea and cardamom, the flavors still waiting to be fully revealed.
Jack Hill is a steep, cold site near Occidental, made hearty by the winds of the Pacific Ocean. The grapes in this bottling take on a caramelized, grenadine/kirsch-like richness. Tangy cranberry and citrus, layered atop a light, bright body, are girded by an underlying juiciness.
This complex, tightly wound effort from a four-acre block planted to a single clone tastes of luxurious caramel and toasted oak, its flavors superimposed over a backdrop of forest-like scents.
Cherry cordial meets an earthy core of compost and pine forest in this wine from the windswept appellation. Its spicy cardamom and clove seasonings provide tension to contrast its medium build and velvety texture.
This vineyard-designate pushes the envelope in terms of ripeness, opting to go for a restrained, low-alcohol style. It retains a streak of menthol through a juicy red core of strawberry and oak-toasted tannin, finishing lean.
Silky in high-toned flavors of red cherry, this is light and enjoyable. A memorable jolt of acidity on the finish nicely ties things up and gives the wine a mouthwatering quality.
Harvested from six different vineyard sites, this wine employed 10% stems and 10% new oak for a brooding sense of blue and red berry, the acidity plenty zesty and tannins softly measured.
Many vineyards were sourced for this dry rosé, made from a selection of Pinot Noir clones. Beautifully pale rose petal color, its aromas and flavors lean herbal before fresh notes of raspberry and strawberry set in. The finish is intense.
Pure Pinot from the winery's estate O'Connell Vineyard, planted to one clone, this is a tremendous celebration of the grape, fresh in cherry and raspberry and pillowed by gentle wafts of rose petal. Light on the tongue and yet girded by enough structure to age and enjoy over time, this wine is simply delicious.
Spicy strawberry and cherry hover over forest floor and a tangle of tangy acidity that keeps this wine fresh and vibrantly compelling. Full bodied and robust, it maintains a balance in the glass, making it both food-friendly and an option on its own.
Forest and pine give this wine an edgy, earthy and ethereal core that's dotted in notions of baked strawberry. Sizable oak and tannin structure add weight and power from a concentrated year.
This is an appropriately simple Pinot, not particularly varietal, with a good amount of red fruit and oak.
From an estate property, this is among the winery's top bottlings every year. In this stellar vintage it shows well in a mix of cranberry and dense earth. Tightly wound and still a touch chewy in tannin weight, the oak is present yet integrated, allowing the ripe fruit to shine.
This sultry wine is sourced from the producer's Trenton Road vineyard, cooler than where the winery itself sits in Chalk Hill. Planted to six clones, it provides this bottling with a taste of blueberry and raspberry integrated around soft, juicy tannins and a brightness of acidity.
Fragrant and inviting in dark cherry, raspberry and cola spice, this medium-weight Pinot Noir is lush and meaty. Bright flavors veer from dark cherry to raspberry, with a pronounced lift of earth and herb. The wine is layered, beautifully textured and long in the finish.
Elegant and well structured, this offers vibrant strawberry fruit wrapped around inviting aromatics of violet and spice. This cool-climate Pinot boasts a silky texture on the palate and finishes with subtle suggestions of wood smoke and cinnamon.
Overlooking the Gualala River and Pacific Ocean, the McDougall Vineyard reaches elevations of 1,100 feet, a perfect vantage point from which to breathe in fresh, cooling coastal air. The resulting wine is awash in bright, vibrant acidity, yet offers equal measures of juicy black cherry fruit and dried herb spice.
Bow Tie is planted to a variety of clones, including Swan and Rochioli. It is one of the winery's newest vineyard sources and this vintage is the first of its vineyard-designated wines from the site. Floral in anise, plum and raspberry, it is medium-bodied with a background of oak that picks up on the finish, offering seasonings of caramel and chocolate.
Assertive in its earthy, barnyard-like aromas, this biodynamic, Dijon-clone-based wine is light on its feet. It's ripe flavors are still developing, and it has a finish that one wishes would linger longer.
High in perceptible acidity, this wine leans savory in rhubarb, cranberry and a twist of sour cherry, adding in clove and black pepper behind the scenes. Light-bodied, it's soft and table-ready.
Strawberry hulls, earth and a touch of bittersweet black tea combine in this full-bodied, expressive wine with a slight, reductive quality and spicy acidity. From a spot on the Santa Rosa Plain, it comes from a mix of clones and is soft on the palate.
Woodenhead makes a range of Pinot Noirs from both the Russian River and Anderson valleys and this one starts out with an earthy ring of raspberry, a lot of black tea and some herbal undertones. Still impacted from its time in oak, the finish is hard to pinpoint, slightly spicy and unresolved.
Minty sage and cedar dot the aromatic profile of this wine that is holding on to tannin and oak with a fierce stubbornness. Tart cherry, pomegranate and blueberry give it a fruity mélange, accented by subtle rose petal and violet.
This is a richer, rounder version of rosé, with tropical mango and pineapple notes as well as lush peach aspects. Moderate acidity keeps it grounded and refreshing.
From estate-grown fruit dotted around the appellation, this wine shines in a fresh approach to tannin and savory-laced black cherry, seasoning it with clove, earth and black tea. Its length impresses, with the finish vibrantly spiked with cardamom and cola spice.
This is a gorgeously light coastal offering, a subdued expression of the variety that unravels its layers slowly and methodically. Red cherry, lavender and blueberry are revealed on the palate as perfumed shocks of rose and salty air permeate the nose. Vibrantly crisp, it has a slight grip to the velvety texture.
From a site on the edges of Santa Rosa, this vineyard-designate shows a wealth of baked strawberry and is noteworthy for its vibrantly fruity aromatics. Ripe, velvety and lush on the palate, it delivers sensually and deliciously, with a lasting imprint of cola spice on the finish.
This is a robust, full-bodied wine, balanced and complex, with a lush, plush mouthfeel that's seductive and velvety. Black pepper, clove and characteristics of earthy forest floor define it most, while dark cherry nips at its sides.
There's a diluted nature to this wine, from a selection of varietal clones. Dry, it holds back on flavor, delivering a light texture and soft red-fruit flavors.
This medium-bodied, small-production red was given a light touch of oak, only 25% of it new and French, allowing the other characteristics to speak louder than the wood. Compact tannins support a juicy, youthfully grippy frame of pomegranate and orange that opens further in the glass.
From an 850-foot-elevation site four miles from the ocean, this offers a depth of dark cherry and Asian spice, lightly bodied and textured. It delivers a hit of bittersweet chocolate on the tangy finish, with an intriguing streak of charcuterie that's hard to shake.
Made by longtime Domaine Chandon still-wine Winemaker Joel Burt, this red offers delicious value, sourcing from sites within the Russian River, Sonoma Coast and Carneros AVAs. Coolness and restraint are the guides, the wine light in color and texture, with just touches of spice, strawberry and tea. It finishes juicy, with a citrus flair.
From a cool site overlooking the ocean in Occidental, this is a feral, earthy wine, with a nose of garden patch, black tea and orange. Juicy at its core, it's structured in smooth tannin. Hints of new oak provide pleasant accents without overburdening the herbal and fruity core.
A vineyard-designate since 2007, this wine shows vigor and volatility in the glass, a mix of white pepper, heightened acidity and an underlay of black tea and forest floor. Brooding in dark berry, it never lets the fruit become entirely ripe, opting instead for savory complexity.
The new oak is dialed down a bit to 33% in this memorable red from the producer's estate Quail Hill Vineyard. Lovely in every way, it opens in rose petals and a subtlety of Asian five-spice, before a succulence of cranberry, rhubarb and orange unleash a fullness of fruit and lush texture on the palate.
This wine has some pleasant layers of black cherry and tea yet is marred by its unresolve between being thin and overly oaked. The earthiness on display is on the funky side of things.
Dark and brooding in savory mushroom yumminess, Paul Hobbs' more affordable Pinot Noir offers dark cherry and spice in good proportion. Concentrated, lush and perfumed it'll accompany a range of foods enjoyably.
This succulent wine's brawny earth is steadied by fresh acidity, adding tart flavors of tangy rhubarb, cranberry and rose. Crushed rock and dried herb notes add savory complexity and texture, but it's the pretty aromas that ultimately seize the day.
This wine is both incredibly pretty and wild, a tenacious quality of feral forest and ocean at its core. Honeysuckle and rose provide the beauty first, followed by a depth of gorgeous cherry, strawberry and rhubarb, the fruit alive and fresh atop a gravelly texture of complexity.
This is made in tiny amounts, which is heartbreakingly sad given its deliciousness and provenance, the grapes hailing from the Rochioli Sweetwater site on Westside Road. Spice box and sweet black-cherry flavors are lightly oaked and layered with velvety texture, the wine full-bodied and totally balanced.
This is a huge Pinot Noir—big-boned all around—tasting of warm climate fruit, with bulky tannins and a heavy oak presence. Let it open a bit to let out the dark plum and earthy spice flavors.
Blue and red fruit wrap around ample, tangy acidity in this medium-bodied, velvety textured wine, so classically styled for the appellation. Pomegranate, rhubarb and floral rose are all highlighted along its gradual evolution in the glass.
This is an estate-grown wine from a vineyard planted to three clones. It has an air of forested truffle, pine and cinnamon within a stemmy and somewhat unresolved body of medium weight.
Stemmy in earthy pine and clove-like spice, this is a powerfully dense and delicious wine. It's on the higher side in terms of alcohol, though doesn't reflect it in bouquet or taste. Savory dark berry wraps itself around mushroomy truffles and black tea to linger on the tongue through a lengthy, weighty finish.
This wine delivers in flavor and aroma, a refined layering of cherry and strawberry that celebrates what this aromatic clone can do in Russian River Valley. Orange peel and tart, tight acidity combine around a silky texture, with a ginger-spice finish and lingering hint of rose petal.
The producer has chosen to highlight the Petaluma Gap region within the larger Sonoma Coast appellation on this wine, a nod to its recent purchase of the well-regarded Sun Chase Vineyard as well as an endorsement of the Gap becoming an appellation of its own one day. This Pinot might help matters, a beautifully floral mix of rose petal and violet on the nose followed intricately by juicy, subtle red fruit and buoyant acidity.
This wine needs some coaxing at first to come out of its shell. Once settled, it entices in warming cardamom, clove and damp earth, taking on savory airs. Exuberant as it develops, it offers high-toned cherry and tangerine that surround a silky, subtle body. Hints of spicy cinnamon and white pepper mark the finish.
Within a statement-sized bottle, this heavy, lush and aromatic Pinot Noir from a great vineyard could ignite debates about California Pinot styles. Aged about a year in all French oak, 65% of it new, it reveals an expanse of dark cherry fruit, velvety texture and plenty of structure amidst a leathery core and lengthy finish.
A slip of sour cherry gives zing to this medium-acidity, fruit-forward wine that's both earthy and pinched in toasted oak.
There's a mildness to this wine that most tastes of dried cherry and cranberry, with a medium-bodied structure of moderate acidity. Forest floor and earthy compost dominate.
There's an impact of treacly grenadine-strawberry on the nose of this wine that suggests full-bodied ripeness, but on the palate it underwhelms in light, diluted flavor and texture. The finish is short.
A soft, mid-range, medium-bodied Pinot Noir from areas including the Russian River Valley and Sonoma Coast, it imparts aromas of rosemary and herbes de Provence before delving into a world of tart cherry and cranberry. The finish is smoky.
Whole-cluster fermented, this wine offers complexities of baked plum, raspberry and truffled earth. Generous in oak and structure, it also flashes lavender, rose and black licorice around a core of meaty game. Smooth on the palate, enjoy this wine through 2027.
Earthy and filled with baking spice, this wine offers floral aromas, bright acidity and flavors of baked strawberry compote steeped in cinnamon. Lush on the palate, as so many of the producer's wines are, it is quite mouthfilling and will take on more nuance with time, through 2022.
Blue fruit stars in this juicily exuberant wine that shows upfront citrus, red cherry and a spark of campfire-like smoke. Its bristling acidity is balanced in a core of backbone-building tannin that gives it weight and depth.
Klopp is a mix of California and Burgundy clones, one of the producer's finest offerings every year, made in an opulent, balanced style. Lush layers of strawberry and cherry are surrounded by truffle-like dirt. The wine is concentrated in tannin and subtle oak, while anise marks the measured finish. The wine will benefit from time in the cellar through 2020.
This is a terrific representation of all that is spectacularly specific about Keefer Ranch, a relatively cool site for grapes in Green Valley. Earthy and spicy in clove and nutmeg, the wine is layered in cranberry and crisp cherry. It's supple and silky on the palate, with an earthy oomph to the finish.
This powerful Pinot is not for the meek or easily afraid. It's a heavyweight in its prime, stemmy and unabashedly full-throttled in juicy Bing cherry, blackberry and raspberry. Though generous in style, it remains coiled in acidity, with springtime aromas of just-picked rose, proving beauty can come in a substantial package.
From great farmers and a great site, this wine somehow never comes fully to life, offering a muted taste of cherry and strawberry around minty dollops of earth and dried herb.
Light and lean on entry, this wine builds up steam and power as it develops in the glass, becoming a robust exploration of rhubarb and cranberry. The texture on the palate is velvety and moderately rich, dotted in sultry spice.
Thick, rich and tightly wound, this cool-climate wine from near the town of the same name is brightly acidic and floral. A mix of rose petal, violet and dried herbes de Provence on the nose echoes on the palate. Bing and dark cherry provide a sultry fruitiness that never dominates over the piquant cardamom spice. Drink now through 2023.
This wine comes from the coolest pocket of the producer's estate, the last part typically picked. It offers a study in savory tannin development and thickness, the skins unable to soften gently in the cold. Earthy clove defines the flavor, along with a leathery meatiness and firm structure. A suggestion of black cherry tries to muddle through. Drink now through 2023.
From the steepest, east-facing block of the estate vineyard, given 15% whole-cluster fermentation, this is a dense, brooding wine, spicy and concentrated in blueberry and black cherry. It has a tenacity of earthiness that never lets go, lingering on the full-bodied palate for days. Drink now through 2023.
An earthiness permeates this wine, from a wild site near the Pacific Ocean. Black tea, olive and crushed rock-influenced minerality keep it interesting as it goes, the tannins velvety though pronounced, especially on the finish.
Soft, silky and made in a delicate style, Horseshoe is all about forested earth, black tea and truffle, a delicate lining of orange peel accented in the background. The tannins are well managed and subtle, with the right amount of oak letting the minerality of the wine speak softly but surely.
Smooth and seductively intense, this wine offers rich layers of black cherry and blackberry that lengthen on the palate, buoyed by soft tannins. An earthy sublayer keeps it complex and compelling.
What a powerfully lovely, lilting and blockbuster of a wine this is. Seamless in baked rhubarb and a velvety texture it never stops impressing, allowing for nuanced explosions of black cherry and Asian spice to coat the palate and become more complex the longer each sip lingers. Deliciously drinkable now, the wine will take on additional wow factor over time.
A suggestion of minty eucalyptus makes itself quietly known on the entry of this wine, followed by soft, seamless layers of rich red cherry. Floral and bursting in elegance, it's a vibrant, worthy representation of the vineyard. Sadly, this is the last vintage from this producer from this site. Drink now through 2020.
Bottled unfiltered, this wine shows some carbonic tendencies, a wildness of strawberry punch and sharp acidity. Light bodied and restrained, it is softly layered and subtle in oak.
Dense packed earth and a wild edge make for a complex experience in this vineyard-designate, from a hilltop site tended by fellow vintner and grape grower, Steve MacRostie. Blackberry, plum and herb flirt around light-bodied layers of black tea, with a finish of high-strung black cherry.
Sweet cherry-vanilla rolls off the palate in this concentrated, lush and velvety Pinot Noir that offers all the aspects of classic Russian River Valley fruit. The texture is seamlessly integrated around firm, supple tannins and bright, earthy red fruit.
A saignée-method rosé given three months in neutral French oak, this wine is dark raspberry in color. Vibrant and fresh, it offers swirls of spicy herb and wild strawberry, a hint of watermelon adding to its mouthwatering quality. Dry and savory, it also has some meat on its bones, a lovely go-to for meals of all kinds.
Muscular in brambly black cherry and spicy cola layers, this lingers on the palate long after the initial sip. A fine example from what the Russian River Valley winemakers call the Laguna Ridge, a not-too-cool, not-too-warm section of the appellation with shallow Goldridge soils.
There are equal parts strawberry and earth in this Pinot, sourced from the who's who of vineyard sites in Russian River, including Toboni, Hallberg, Floodgate, Rochioli and Bacigalupi. The components come together in mesmerizing ways, making for a balanced and restrained Pinot that's fresh in strawberry and cherry as well as seasonings of herb and cinnamon spice, building power as it goes.
This wine is straightforward in approach and uncomplicated in its light-bodied gathering of cola, pine forest and tea notes.
This Cerise Vineyard Pinot is rich and bright and as delicious as a cherry tart. Silky and substantial, the finish has a pleasant herbal undertone that almost delves into leather. A great food-pairing wine, enjoy it with pork tenderloin or bacon-wrapped figs or dates.
Copper-pink in color, this lively, fuller-bodied style rosé is from 100% Pinot Noir, picked specifically for the style, then given time to ferment in stainless barrels and neutral French oak. Intense acidity gives a sizzling quality on the palate, with biting flavors of strawberry and watermelon.
Extended time in all new French oak barrels give this wine a heartier feel than it might otherwise have, swirls of oaky caramel and toast most prominent on the nose and initial palate. A richness of color also stands out, while velvety tannins and red fruit complete the experience. Letting the wine open helps temper its size, revealing a measured level of refinement.
Earthy spice and forest floor notes are kept fresh by vibrant acidity in this full-bodied estate wine. Black tea and herbal flavors dominate the finish.
Made in tiny quantities, this reserve-tier wine is smoky and robust in black cherry and vanilla flavors, supported by a density of oak.
A blend from two sites—one in the Sebastopol Hills and the other in the heart of the appellation—this is a high-toned expression of earthiness over fruit, brimming in cardamom and mushroom scents.
Given its high-octane aroma of barrel and petrol, this Pinot is defined by its need to settle down, more disheveled teenager than the groomed adult it surely will become. The bones are there, dark berry fruit and lurking, earthy spice. There's a developing softness to the texture, the aromas still being worked out.
This classically coastal wine, influenced by wind and fog, is light bodied and buoyant in acidity, perfumed by clove, cola and cherry. The oak is present, while integrated, providing a thickness of texture that should mellow in time.
Thick, ripe and jammy, this is an explosive wine, broadly rich and rewarding in black-cherry, berry and licorice layers of flavor. Firm, tight tannins offer structure and power, with an intriguing hint of fennel funneling through.
Light copper-pink in color, this vineyard-designate shows a wealth of peach and orange flavors that combine to refreshing effect. Lightly made in a bright accessible style, the wine offers a moderate body weight and texture that's pleasing on the palate.
Perhaps the lightest Pinot in the producer's lineup, and the most readily accessible, this is fresh and fruity. Highlighted in strawberry and cherry, it retains a tension of black tea and earth. Silky on the palate, it finishes as lightly as it started.
Wonderfully aromatic in Bing cherry, this is a soft, supple Pinot with an oaky, tannic backbone that's otherwise light in color and body. With just the right hint of rose petal happening, it's pretty, too.
Earthy sage and black licorice invite one into this dark brooding expression of the grape, defined in exotic blackberry, black cherry and smoke. Medium bodied and softly smooth, it impresses in its brush with the dark side.
Reduced on the nose, youthfully, the reduction blows away to reveal a fruity landscape of blueberry and blackberry that's ripe yet light. Spritzy acidity freshens a hearty body and supportive oak.
This is a bright, fully realized wine from the distinctive appellation: soft with an integrated approach to its use of oak. Wild strawberry, cranberry and a threading of dried herb combine effortlessly into a pleasurable whole.
This is a uniquely layered Pinot with concentrated dark-cherry liqueur flavor wrapped in notes of mushroom and dirt. The finish is bright and long-lasting. This one calls for chanterelles sautéed with plenty of olive oil and bacon bits.
Earthy in sage and black tea, this wine is lightly layered and seamless in texture, with an underlying minty flavor. Cardamom and cola provide a spiciness that persists along a road of great length and breadth.
From another of the producer's coastal estate sites, this wine is juicy, spicy and leathery—a celebration of fresh wild strawberries and buzzy acidity. Earth, rose and white pepper flavors add welcome complexity within a tightly woven frame of structure and length.
This wine is produced in microscopic amounts, the result of sourcing grapes from a notoriously difficult-to-farm site. It rewards in flavor: hearty cherry and pomegranate fruit, a crisp, crunchy texture, powerful tannins and oak, and an underlying minerality that presents as elusively as a cloud of fog.
This vineyard-designate opens in bombastic amounts of Asian spice and wild strawberry, making for a whirlwind of flavor and acidity on the palate. Black tea and rose garden dance around highlights of orange and cranberry, the wine tart in mineralogy, as well as full of length and density.
Light and clear in color, this impish wine needs time to grow up in the bottle, its profile momentarily giving way almost entirely to savory Asian five-spice and a sharp acidity that should interweave together expertly over the years. Vibrant and complex, the fruit is sultry and dusted in earth. Set this one down through 2017.
A big-boned Pinot, inexpensively priced, that offers smoke and oak without nuance or layers.
Perfumed in rose and violet, with a sauvage scent of musk, this distinctive wine is soft and silky on the palate. It features a mix of red cherry and sage, with a full body and an expansive and lengthy finish.
This is a spicy, earthy and medium-bodied selection, lengthy and concentrated in cardamom and forest pine. The fruit tends dark and brooding, with a brambly character balanced against the crispness of acidity. The spiciness persists through the finish.
Light, clear and crisp, this extremely light-bodied wine combines fruit from various vineyards and clones, and offers a suggestion of cranberry and pomegranate. Earthy, with an edge of forest and tea, it finishes plainly.
Aromas of baked sour cherry tart precede pleasing wafts of violet and lavender. From a vineyard planted largely to a field selection of the Swan clone, it offers an expected earthiness and spiciness that intrigues around a core of balanced tension between fruit, acid and oak.
Cherry, strawberry and baking spices combine in this medium-bodied wine that offers texture and soft, supple layers of refreshing acidity.
An inexpensive, large-production Pinot that's overly earthy and a little thin on the finish with a smidgen of residual sugar thrown in too, but reasonably priced and decently quaffable with food.
Ripe black raspberry and cherry mark this lovely Pinot that is rich and concentrated. The oak is prominent, with a touch of meaty gaminess on the full palate. Balanced, the wine's acidity remains remarkably bright.
Pretty in violet and rose petals this is a lower-octane Pinot Noir for the winery. Exquisitely rendered in spicy dark cherry and soft, supple tannins, it hails from a cool, coastal vineyard site 1,000 feet atop Occidental Ridge, the coolest source of grapes for Davis.
Smoky, spicy and midweight, this earthy, brooding Pinot maintains layers of minerality amid fresh red berry fruit. The texture opens up into silky waves in the glass, finishing with the right balance of cherry and spice.
Gap's Crown remains a magical site for Pinot producers and Fulcrum does justice to it, providing a subtle entry of soft oak on the nose before letting it open further into dark, brambly berry and earth. The backbone is strong and structured, and the finish is long and soft, with an ideal seasoning of exotic Mediterranean spice and herb that linger fully and invite one in for more.
From a hilltop location near the ocean-influenced town of Freestone, this wine is silky in plum and dark cherry, a hint of mushroomed earth doing its best to come out. Robust on the palate, juicy berry fruit satisfies, finishing thick and rich.
This wine opens with a curious waft of pastry-like vanilla cream underneath cherry tart and a squeeze of citrus. Oaky on the back palate it struggles to find itself in the glass, the fruit trying to make its way through the thickness of tannin. Letting the wine air a bit should help.
Baked strawberry and a bittersweet note of cherry play off the palate around a medium-bodied frame of subtle tannin and oak. Dried cranberry comes in as a secondary detail, before the wine finishes in a blaze of leather and black tea.
This is beautifully lilting in preciously defined aromas of rose petal and wild strawberry. From there, it's all subtlety and ethereal elegance. The wine is restrained, nurtured in a basket of nutmeg and graham cracker, as well as freshly packed mushroomy earth. This wine is a stunner right out of the glass, but is sure to continue its fine course through 2022–2025.
Silky on the palate, this offers exotic aromas of orange blossom and spicy cardamom. Juicy in fresh cherry, it combines structured elegance and plenty of power, amid a mouthwatering quality that's seductively delicious and yet just begs the question of how much more nuanced the flavors will be in time. Drink through 2022.
Fresh-picked Bing cherry delights on the initial entry into this silky Pinot, sourced from a long-famous site in the heart of the Russian River. Medium-bodied and nicely structured, it offers ample concentration around a core of elegance, with a lingering finish of vibrant cherry. Enjoy through 2022.
This vineyard-designated wine reflects its sense of place remarkably well, offering tight dark cherry and blueberry around a strong character of wild earth, tea and herb. High in acidity and minerality, and yet powerfully understated, it's gorgeously drinkable now but will gain further complexity through 2022.
Copper peach and orange in color, this light, dry wine is soft and refreshing. Flavors of grapefruit, tangerine and cherry don't overwhelm on the palate. It finishes crisp and ready for another sip.
This is an herbal, earthy, delicately layered and silky wine with red cherry and pomegranate characteristics. Medium-bodied, it stays true to its varietal nature by being light on its feet.
Spicy earth meets baked plum and cherry in this medium-bodied wine sourced from multiple sites, including Sangiacomo Vineyards. Mint and lavender scents emerge on the nose before stronger elements of tobacco take over on the finish.
Cloudy, pungent and supremely earthy, this wine reveals its delicate acidity over time, bringing balance to its flamboyant fruit. With intense strawberry, orange peel and black tea flavors, it's savory and richly built, finishing on a touch of smoky vanilla.
There's an earthy funkiness to this inexpensive Pinot, made at an unheard-of price point for the area. Dry tannins greet the entry followed up by burly oak and big brambly blackberry and cherry fruit, a touch of herb on the finish.
Light in texture, this wine shows a fair amount of barrel influence aromatically. On the palate, it's similarly challenging to disregard the oak, which frames a mid-weight body marked by sour cherry.
This soft, light-bodied wine is on the savory side, a taste of cranberry and rhubarb at its core. It dances in cooler-climate aspects of forest floor and herb, with an unexpected aroma of menthol sneaking into the mix.
This is a blend of several marquee vineyards, including Gap's Crown, Martinelli and Widdoes. It comes together nicely in a mix of fig and baked bread, peppered in baking spices and dried herb. Cherry comes through along with subtle hints of violet and rose, before a long, lingering finish ties things in a juicy bow at the end.
Pinkish-gold in color, this is a faint, dry and herbal rosé that's pungent in fuzzy stone fruit such as peach and apricot. Made entirely from Pinot Noir grapes, it's light and bright, with a finish of tart grapefruit.
This is a soft, complex and floral wine, sourced from an estate vineyard on Westside Road. Black cherry, tangerine and oak reduction make for a bright, brooding combination of medium-bodied lushness and subtle power.
One of the first producers to work with Bucher Vineyard fruit, this shows familiarity and comfort in its ability to coax black cherry, pomegranate and allspice flavors, wrapping them in a voluptuous mouthfeel. Full-bodied and lushly layered, it's lengthy with a touch of smoke.
From the BudBreak Vineyard, this lengthy and complex wine is bold and fresh—an exploration of cranberry and orange flavors complemented by spicy acidity. It continues to unveil itself in the glass, revealing additional components of toasted oak and forest mushroom.
From near Olivet Lane and Pellegrini Vineyard—some of the longest planted sites in the appellation—this red is densely packed with spicy, wild black and red fruit, with a soft underbelly of structure. Earthy mushroom and forest pine give it a savory dimension, through soft, silky waves of texture.
A pretty label created by film production designer Dean Tavoularis graces the bottle of this wine. It offers a mix of tight-grained tannin, cherry cola and smoky oak.
Grapefruit, orange and cherry mélange nicely together on the palate of this tantalizingly zesty wine, the acidity front and forward. Fresh and refreshing, the tang mellows on the finish, providing medium body and weight.
Moderate in structure, full bodied and ripe, this wine is tightly wound in firm, strong tannin. Light flavors of cherry and orange integrate spiky accents of clove, tea and dried herb.
Medium in build and lengthy with layers of flavor, this vineyard-designate offers a wealth of rhubarb, pomegranate, cherry and black tea, the background built around strong notions of forest floor.
Flavors of baked strawberry and raspberry provide a concentrated richness to this wine, accented by earthy, subtle baking spice. Layered in well-managed tannins, it offers substantial body without the weight, staying structured on the palate, before an intensity of oak and more spice bursts on the finish.
Sizable tannin, weight and oak suggest cellaring this wine through 2019. The time will be well spent developing this wine's generously robust and vibrant swirls of wild strawberry, black cherry and baking spices. Bright acidity and floral aromas of violet and rose complete the lovely package.
This is extreme Sonoma Coast Pinot Noir, from an Annapolis-area vineyard. It's juicy and velvety on the palate, the layered dollops of black tea and savory cardamom accenting crisp orange peel, cranberry and pomegranate. Floral upon entry, the wine proffers subtle yet ample acidity and relatively low alcohol.
Floral like a bouquet of roses, this pretty wine is lined in a tight structure of sinewy earthiness. Orange, cranberry and rhubarb define a crisp, tart profile, while oak makes a sneak, welcome appearance that doesn't overstay its welcome.
This tight, classic Russian River Valley Pinot Noir needs coaxing to bring out the lovely, lilting aromatics, splendid in savory dark fruit, cinnamon and tobacco. Restrained use of new oak brings a balance of richness and acidity, softened tannins and velvety texture that works in every way.
This Pinot is joyous in fresh berry fruit aromas and flavors, from wild strawberry to taut cherry, the fruit buoyed by lush, velvety tannins and generous acidity. Pretty on the nose and tongue, it discloses a trace of vanilla on the clean, distinct finish.
From a vineyard planted above the town of Sonoma and named for its address, this small-production wine offers blueberry pie, chocolate and smoky oak aromas. Big and burly on the palate with sizable tannins, it integrates black cherry and burnt orange into the mix, finishing balanced and elegant.
From a vineyard site close to the Pacific Ocean, this bombastically rich wine is hard to resist, with its supple rose and lavender notes that grow more powerful on the palate. It leads with fleshy strawberry flavors, augmenting its ripeness with cardamom and chocolate touches.
This Pinot offers bright tart cherry fruit and earthy spice in good proportion and is softly textured. From the remote Mendocino Ridge and aged in entirely French oak, it's still young and exhibiting plenty of oaky toast on the finish.
This is a concentrated, lovely wine that offers a depth of red berry, forest floor and herbes de Provence. All of the wine's elements come together seamlessly on the palate. Approachable now, but should also age well.
New oak figures prominently on the palate of this generous and ripe wine, an impression that's nicely offset by ample structure and juicy acidity. It's balanced and approachable, so enjoy now.
A depth of baking spices and cinnamon stick greets the nose and palate with eager abundance, showing off the wine's savory, flirty side. Good acidity helps balance out the powerful concentration and sword's edge of alcohol, before finishing fresh and with length.
Earthy and stemmy in dark black fruit, this wine contains 2% Syrah from Dunnigan Hills, though it's unclear how that contributes. Thin on the palate, it has a medicinal, minty flourish on the finish.
This estate-grown wine comes from the vineyard that provides the backbone to the producer's well-known Les Pommiers Pinot Noir. Tart in rhubarb, pomegranate and plush, herb-kissed red fruit, it's juicy and young, complex yet approachable. Full bodied and grainy in tannin, it'll provide years of pleasure for drinkers who can wait.
Light, quiet layers of spice persist in this elegant, soft yet refined wine. Rose petal, orange, cherry and rhubarb flavors provide subtle fruitiness, supported by vibrant acidity and unobtrusive oak.
This bright, focused wine with tense acidity blends fruit from five vineyards across the appellation. Silky tannins enwrap its nuanced dark cherry and wild strawberry flavors tinged with earth.
A minty strangeness permeates this wine, which comes off as artificial in flavor. Rumblings of cherry grenadine try to emerge from the muddled midpalate, which otherwise lacks flavor. The quick finish is medicinal and sweet.
This wine is flawed, with rustic leathery undertones that veer into Band-Aid, and an intensely sour note. Multiple bottles tried over several months.
Sizable tannins and oak make for a full-bodied experience that comes off closed and tight at first, the wine needing some time in the glass to unwind. With patience, it unpeels layers of soft, floral aromas and quiet notions of raspberry and strawberry.
From the famous vineyard site along Westside Road, equally known for its Chardonnay, this big, bold red is not for the faint of heart. It delivers a powerful punch of voluptuously jammy blueberry around soft, earthy wisps of forest and black tea.
A depth of earth and sassafras make for sultry companions in this vineyard designate, marked by heady aromas of roses. Soft and subtle on the palate, with a lightness and elegance, it lingers in pomegranate, raspberry and black tea.
This impressive wine is tangy in cherry, cranberry and evocative peels of orange zest that possess concentrated tannin and weight while maintaining a baseline of positive acidity. Lengthy and bold on the finish, it lingers in hits of spice.
Sourced from two vineyards, including Sangiacomo Amaral Ranch, a cool site near the bay, this is a tremendous offering for the price. The wine is light, bright and brambly in raspberry and cherry kirsch, with a mischievous streak of cola. Pretty and fresh, it finishes in a tease of black tea.
Full-figured tannins wrap luxuriously around textured layers of cranberry and black cherry in this blockbuster wine. A subtle minerality forms in the background, represented best by the taste of orange peel, before it finishes densely concentrated. Drink now through 2021.
There's an exotic perfumey-ness to this wine that almost suggests patchouli, so relaxed and complex it is. Medium-bodied with an inviting layering of black cherry and stemmy earthiness, it's curiously riddled in white pepper as it finishes.
Earthy cherry and wild strawberry notes form the core of this deep, concentrated and yet not overly dense wine. Herbal and teasingly tart as it shifts from midpalate to finish, it offers a last splash of nutmeg on the finale.
Subtle aromatics of earthy rose petal surround this silky, light wine, steeped in acidity and a damp-forested quality. Spicy throughout in cinnamon, cardamom and grated nutmeg, the wine picks up a girth of thickness on the finish, a knot of tannin that gives it a swath of complexity and cellaring possibilities, through 2018.
This producer is honing in on the unconventional, sourcing Pinot Noir grapes from unlikely Napa Valley spots like Spring Mountain and Atlas Peak. The resulting wines are surprising and unpredictable in their complexity of savory blithe spirit, light and clear with edgy red cherry and tea, plenty structured, with lurking tannin. The floral aspect on the nose is compelling, as is the cardamon finish.
Made from a barrel selection of Keefer Ranch grapes, this wine flirts in juicy grenadine and red licorice on the nose, before developing into a more complex expression of supple tannins and likable acidity. Ripe and blood-orange sweet on the finish, it delivers elegance and finesse without holding back on the appellation's exuberance of fruit.
Made from a single-vineyard source of Pinot Noir grapes, this lovely pinkish-red wine is a celebration of wild strawberry. Dry, crisp and refreshing, it offers a twist of citrus on the finish and a floral backbone of honeysuckle.
Silky in blueberry and boysenberry fruit, this is a balanced Pinot, tending toward black and blue fruit over red, with a bouquet of rose petals and truffled earth. With just a sprinkling of cinnamon and nutmeg, it develops spiciness on the palate, finishing light and bright.
Wild berry and vanilla rise to the fore on this rose-petal-piqued vineyard-designate, the site planted by this producer. There's some girth on the midpalate, and depth of flavor, along with a supportive structure of oak and tannin, the entirety teased in complexity. It finishes juicy and refreshing in pomegranate, wild mushroom and spice.
A heavy, full-bodied commingling of cola and dark cherry, this offers bites of minty bay leaf along the way. This accent is welcome and yet risks getting overcome by the ripeness of fruit.
There's a basket of ripe raspberry and strawberry in this earthy, single-vineyard designated wine, an earthiness that doesn't let go. Truffle and damp forest meet in the middle to introduce dusty, dense tannins that will benefit from time and air.
Drinkable now, this wine opens with a syrupy grenadine aroma that rises to the top, followed by enjoyable layers of black cherry, mushroomy earth and silky, smooth tannins. Not overly complicated or overpriced, it'll please a crowd and do service to midweek meals.
This wine is easy to like at first taste, a heady, interesting combination of ripe, rich red fruit and spicy earth, accented in black tea and truffle. Soft in texture, and from a wonderful grower, it may have gotten overly ripe, finishing a touch hot.
This is a juicy, mid-weight and lengthy version of the variety, elegantly crafted with highlights of cherry and cranberry as well as integrated layers of earthy forest floor. Lengthy, it drinks well on its own but will star with the right food, especially pork.
Velvety, robust structure makes way for a textured, complex personality of baked plum, rhubarb and cola spice. That spice continues in lengthy spikes of clove and cinnamon, providing a warmth that complements and accents the concentration.
This vineyard site, like many others in Green Valley, was once planted to Gravenstein apples. That heritage persists in this wine's tartness that highlights an earthiness of sassafras, pomegranate and even citrus, bright elements atop a velvety-smooth texture.
This wine opens with a touch of reductive qualities on the nose, allowing the oak to speak loudest. Soon, dark berry and cherry make their presence better felt, with the oak taking a lesser role and the soft, integrated tannins coating the palate in this light-bodied, unfussy effort.
From two of the most coveted sites in the appellation, this wine showcases an elegant ripeness and rapturous relationship to fruit. Dried sage and forest overtones complement concentrated flavors of fig, orange and dried cherry. It offers ample structure and is beautifully put together.
Velvety smooth, this wine seduces from the get-go, robust in black fruit, tea and delicate offerings of rose petal and lavender. Intensely full bodied, it retains a balance of bright, natural acidity that tames the spicy tannin.
From a great site in this cool appellation, this wine shines with a powerful grip of ripe cherry and strawberry fruit and earthy undertones of dried herb and cardamom cola. Layered and dense, it has a seductively smooth texture and bite of minerality.
Dark burgundy in color, it's crafted from estate-grown, organically certified grapes, a mix of Swan, Dijon 667 and 777 and Pommard clones. It has a dense, toasty character from 16 months in French oak, almost half of it new. A darker profile of baked plum and cinnamon swirls amid leathery earth. The finish is zingy and the wine is labeled as vegan.
An appellation wine that's affordable and instantly likable, this has strong forest and mushroom elements, seeming at once rustic and sophisticated. Cranberry and orange tones add brightness to the savory character, framed by fine tannins.
From the seven-acre site surrounding the producer's farmhouse in the heart of the appellation, this wine is tart with red fruit and vibrant, spicy acidity. Perfumed rose petal notes fill the glass, revealing a silky texture as it opens.
Earthy times 10, this unfined, unfiltered wine is subtle and splendid, a study in spiced pomegranate and cola, with a medium build and long finish. Intriguing from start to end, it remains light and vibrant in acidity in the glass, and is a fine example of restraint that doesn't lose flavor.
Smoky bark and cola notes are cradled in reductive oak in this robust wine from a fantastically farmed site. Its dark berry flavor is supported by velvety tannin and juicy acidity, both of which provide moderate structure.
Perfumed with rose and lavender, this wine has robust tannins and dominant oak notes, both in support of its ripe, concentrated red fruit. Woody, herbal components complement the lushness, framed by gravelly texture.
This Foursight Pinot is one of two, in amount of oak used (40% new oak in this case).This is light in color, earthy with mushroom-y spice tones and a darker fruit and oak expression than other, lighter-styled Anderson Valley Pinots. The vineyard is closer to Boonville and thereby typically warmer than the valley's Deep End.
This fine new offering is whimsically packaged with a screw cap and a floral label. That spirit is further evidenced by the wine's pretty pink color and subdued, light building of flavor, highlighted by orange, peach and strawberry notes and a substantial bite of mouthwatering acidity.
This brooding, brawny wine made from mountain fruit is all about mushroom and compost notes—a true expression of the vineyard's surroundings. Black cherry fruit and youthful tannins provide context, with a sizzling streak of acidity.
Crisp and crunchy red fruit like cranberry surround a tight, grippy structure seasoned well in cola and Asian spice. Full bodied, the wine is textured and elegant, robust without being overbearing, a standout for the producer and the appellation in a picture-perfect vintage year, sourced from both the Wayfarer and Hallberg vineyards. Drink now through 2023.
Varietally funky, light in color and straightforward in approach, this still-young wine has structured tannins that persist on the palate, nearly chewy but starting to find their groove. Orange and cinnamon are dominant characteristics.
Thick and foresty, this Pinot Noir embodies the extremes of the Perli Vineyard. It bursts with dark blue and earthy red fruits that are tempered by a savory undertone. This wine takes time to reveal itself, so age it for 5–7 years, and pair it with stews, risottos or seasoned braised lamb.
Light, clear and focused, this features crisp, citrusy acidity and tethered layers of rhubarb and cranberry, with subtle hints of forest floor in the background. Light bodied and elegant, it finishes with just a tiny bite of tannin.
Juicy and soft, this special super-sized bottling will make for a fun wine at a large gathering, approachable and suitably full bodied. Red fruit and oak intermingle around velvety textures of integrated tannins, finishing in a long seasoning of allspice.
This light, elegant wine is perfumed like a rose garden, joined by lavender and dried herb. Its light take is supported by integrated tannin and a lurking tease of smoky meat and toasted oak that adds savoriness to its ethereal character.
Thick and concentrated in black and red fruit, this is a spicy, robust and oaky wine that shows the power of the vintage and site.
There's pronounced power in this Pinot, a selection of 14 barrels given 18 months in 71% new French oak. Complex, it achieves a sense of balance that will come into greater focus over time. At the moment, it offers kirsch notes and sizzling acidity around a core of peppery allspice and toasty brioche, but it will only continue to develop and evolve with age.
This wine has a burnt rubber, mouth-puckering and slightly chemical undertone in aroma and taste.
A pretty, perfumed Pinot Noir, with gorgeous streaks of kir and vibrant blackberry and cherry. It's subtle and structured, with a pronounced layer of earthy forest floor on the finish. With sprinklings of spice, it dazzles from beginning to end.
Burgundian in its earthy, feral aromas, yet simultaneously jammy in flavor, this boasts gamy undertones and a soft texture. The producer recommends decanting an hour minimum before serving, and this will most likely help to blow off the wine's rustically wild side.
Brooding and dark, this softly structured wine is juicy and brimming in tension, its acidity focused and supportive. Black cherry, a subtle touch of cinnamon spice and toasted oak find balance and equal more than the sum of their parts, providing for a luxurious experience in the glass.
This brooding, brawny wine made from mountain fruit is all about mushroom and compost notes—a true expression of the vineyard's surroundings. Black cherry fruit and youthful tannins provide context, with a sizzling streak of acidity.
Dark and brooding with blackberry and boysenberry flavors, this fresh, juicy wine boasts generous oak and tannin. Sourced from the estate vineyard of Freeman Winery in Sebastopol, it gains clove and dried herb nuances as it develops.
Light in color and texture, this is a rose petal aroma-driven wine, floral and herbal in equal waves. Smooth and subdued, it showcases cherry cola and ripe, integrated tannins while remaining lively on the palate and through a lengthy finish.
This is an earthy wine with a persistent thread of acidity that keeps it fresh and vibrant in the glass. Bursting with red cherry and pomegranate fruit, it has rich complements of compost and black licorice.
From estate-grown Pommard clone fruit, this wine shows earthy forest notes against moderate acidity and mellow oak. Medium-bodied, it plays well on the palate with a balance of cranberry and clove flavors.
This luxurious wine revolves around a velvety texture of pure decadence and full-bodied pleasure. Earthy in clove and mushroom, the fruit dives deep into rich aspects of dark cherry and huckleberry.
From a section of the rocky vineyard planted to the Martini clone, a thick-skinned grape, Deer Camp is full bodied, densely concentrated and marked by a streak of spiciness throughout. It's perfumed with roses and forest floor, while it presents a texture that is seductively velvety and smooth.
An inviting mix of rose and nutmeg evolves into tightly woven layers of raspberry and blueberry, with the wine deftly showing its youth and fine-vintage pedigree. Powerful on the palate, it has weight and length, followed by softly lingering allspice.
This is a lovely, elegant wine from the cool appellation within the larger Russian River Valley. Clear and light, it's stemmy and earthy, unraveling spools of cinnamon-clove, rose petals and forested oak around a soft, silky texture and highlights of strawberry-rhubarb.
This wine hails from a variety of Dutton family vineyards, many of them popular vineyard designates of their own. Together they show a deftness of blending, offering bright acidity within a lighthearted context of licorice and wild strawberry. The juicy core is further embellished in huckleberry and blueberry, finishing in a mild hit of nutmeg.
One of Saintsbury's veteran winemakers, Mr. Knuttel displays his love and understanding of the variety with this sexy, spicy single-vineyard wine. Baked cherry and a hint of smoke ride a soft, medium-bodied wave of strawberry flavor with fresh acidity.
Smoky cranberry and pomegranate feature prominently in this medium-bodied, delicately crafted wine. It shows a hint of burnt orange spiked with clove.
Medium-bodied and moderate in acidity, this earthy exploration of clove, cardamom and strawberry-rhubarb is complemented by a depth of black tea flavor. A well-composed, structured wine, it stays bright and fresh on the finish.
Light, floral and brimming in exotic Asian spice, this wine offers length and breadth in an expression of elegance and balance. Orange, pomegranate and red cherry dance around a circle of rose petals, providing succulence and beauty.
Dusty blackberry and juicy clove mark this softly textured, earthy and layered red wine. Full bodied without being bodacious, it instead offers the classic richness and reward of the appellation from a great site in a great vintage.
Made in smaller amounts than its sister label, Starmont, this wine has more complexity and layering of flavors and textures. It opens juicy and exuberant, almost brawny, in black cherry and berry. Oak, currant and clove provide a spicy flair midway through and on the finish.
Less complex than some of Londer's single-vineyard designates, this is a great value Anderson Valley Pinot Noir. It tastes of dark raspberry liqueur with a woody overtone, and its presence and mouthfeel are sizable enough to stand up to a variety of earthy foods.
This is a big, bold wine, full bodied with leathery tannin heat and a generous expression of blackberry and black-cherry cola. A touch of vanilla adds to the plushness and approachability.
While full bodied and plush, this vineyard-designate, named for original owner Judy Jordan's daughter, brightens the palate with cranberry and rhubarb. It shows high acidity and a leanness of texture that makes the wine seem lighter than it is, a nice mix of power and grace with a lingering hit of spice on the finish.
Dark burgundy in color, it has an old-world soul, earthy and brooding in clove, mushroomy forest floor and a light texture of cherry, not what you'd expect from a big-time NASCAR guy. Restrained yet powerful.
This small-production, vineyard-designate is impressive in dried cherry and raspberry layers of flavor, supported by integrated oak. Juicy and explosive on the palate, it offers a spicy forest-floor note that complements the fruit.
Baked cinnamon and cherry tart form a promising beginning into this wine, but an intrusive addition of root beer pushes it over the edge in terms of cloying flavor. The wine then becomes somewhat flimsy on the palate.
A strength of oak and burly black fruit in this single-vineyard designate makes it intense and big. In the background, an unexpected minty, forest floor quality overtakes the aromas at first, but blows off over time. The wine finishes as intensely as it starts, awash in toasty oak.
Smooth and juicy in red fruit with an edge of more savory cranberry, this wine from a great vineyard source rises to its occasion and to its site, offering high acidity, medium weight and a lingering, nearly spicy finish. It's enjoyable now but should show well through 2018.
Rustic and sauvage, this wine has an herbal quality that's hard to shake; it's both so defining and distracting. Cherry and pomegranate also figure in.
This is an earthy, minty, tart and taut wine, worthy of its appellation. It offers light-bodied notions of black tea, cranberry and rhubarb.
This is a good vintage for Handley's Mendocino blend, a mishmash from various vineyards throughout the county. The wine has structure and bright acidity, with its intensity tucked between its layers. This can likely age.
There's an electric current of spice on the first sip. Beyond it are waves of faint strawberry and thin layers of ripe red cherry and a touch of herb. The finish lingers.
Evoking the richness and slightly tart deliciousness of a strawberry-rhubarb compote, this is a bright, vibrant and chewy Pinot, its dry tannins peaking on the finish. From a great vineyard site long sourced by the producer, it's on the lighter side in terms of body and weight, and may need further time to come into its own, through 2017.
Earthy plum, forest floor and mushroom form a funky outline of this wine, before it expands into crisp red cherry, rhubarb and a wisp of sassafras. Medium-bodied, it finishes lean in acidity on the finish.
Skunky, this wine is thick and shiny, with a metallic edge. The fruit leans into notions of wild strawberry.
Flat and somewhat disjointed, this wine offers a strong taste of eucalyptus in a light-bodied, simply structured frame.
Thick tannins obscure some of the richer flavors trying to burst through in this wine, a mix of blackberry, black olive and cedar. Full bodied and generous in every way, it finishes with a slow drag of smoke.
A straightforward, well-priced wine with hints of cola spice, dark cherry and strawberry vanilla that'll go down easy and pair with all kinds of lighter fare. Made from organic grapes.
Tense with acidity and dense in firm tannins, this fun, affordable wine needs time to unwind after opening. Once aired, it shares notes of black tea, licorice and a twine of leather around thick, shy fruit, most notably cranberry.
Light and clear in color and texture, this wine opens in dirt and earth, along with a touch of baked strawberry. Smooth, juicy and long-lasting, it shows off the vintage's warmer leanings, and is medium bodied and densely lengthy.
A field of mint is found on the nose of this soft, spicy wine with the gimmicky name, around a core of red cherry and touch of oak. Fresh and bright, it has a suggestion of heft on the finish.
From the Sebastopol Hills neighborhood, relatively cool and wind-affected, this wine has a compelling generosity, a full-bodied concentration that never gets bogged down. The hits of sandalwood, clove and pine provide a sultry edge.
A sly, subtle wine delicate in profile and character, this has acidity as its main star, and also playing a few supporting parts. Rhubarb, cranberry and orange lie atop more savory specks of cardamom and tea.
Truffled earth and cranberry-strawberry envelop sizable oak and bittersweet tannin in this warm-vintage wine. On the more light-bodied side, it features savory tinges of black tea.
This Marin County Pinot may have suffered from the cool vintage as the raspberry and cherry flavors that it opens with veer into bitter territory. The texture is fine, heavier than usual, the wine just having a hard time coming around.
A smokiness rises to the fore initially in this wine, a toasted oak accent that marks its character. From there, sour cherry and grenadine mix for an earthy celebration of red fruit before this full-bodied wine presents its tannins on the finish.
From a site near Annapolis, this wine shows a preponderance of dark grape and cherry flavor interwoven with cinnamon and black peppercorn. Light-bodied and ethereally layered, it has touches of rustic earthiness and leather.
This wine opens with the fresh liveliness of stemmy earth and black tea notes, growing funkier and more herbal on the midpalate. Brightly layered and deeply flavored, it's a full-bodied rendition that remains true to its variety.
The partnership between vintner Bill Price and winemaker Gavin Chanin, Lutum continues to impress, aiming for elegance without giving up flavor or body. Tightly wound, a signature perhaps of the vintage, this wine is still subtle, suggesting rhubarb and cherry atop forest floor. Smooth, it hides elusive power on the significant finish.
This wine combines fruit from both cool and warm sites, which in the vintage might have both leaned on the warmer side. Black fruit and licorice give it a burly character at first. Decanting or letting the wine open in the glass will help, but still it retains smooth, velvety tannins and resolved oak.
Light in color and weight, this vineyard-designate conveys a wealth of rose petals, earth and bright, crisp red cherry. Compellingly layered and shy, it defines the term ethereal. The finish is medium in length and accented in spicy cardamom.
Stemmy, baked earth is wrapped around a substantial core of oak and dense tannin in this ripe, savory wine. A wealth of baking spices, from nutmeg to cardamom, plays off the lurking layers of rich black cherry and baked strawberry, giving the taste experience an exotic edge. Enjoy through 2020.
Starr Ridge is a two-block site originally planted by winemaker Gary Farrell and farmed by Ulises Valdez. This Cooper Block is incredibly structured and lengthy on the palate, a rich expression of strawberry, high-toned citrus and anise. Playing supporting roles are earth and forest floor.
This herb-laced wine comes from a 1,100-feet elevation outpost five miles from the ocean and shows both feral notes and robust fruit. Tart cranberry flavor dominates, complemented by orange peel nuances. Its tannins are in full force, calling for more time in the glass if not in the cellar. Best the second day after opening, if one can wait.
Sourced from seven different vineyards across the appellation, this ripe Pinot is savory in flavor, seasoning the dark cherry fruit at its center with spicy cardamom and cinnamon. On the palate comes a taste of thick oak and bacon with sizable tannins.
With only 75 cases made, this is 100% Pommard clone Pinot in all its glory. Opening with a great red cherry nose, the wine is bright with a luscious texture, noticeable balance of acidity and depth and a long finish. A Mendo Pinot not from Anderson Valley that does the county proud. Made from biodynamic grapes.
This powerful Pinot, from one of the three distinct blocks within Black Kite's estate vineyard, offers earthy plum compote and blueberry with a lingering background note of vanilla. Bright, grippy and layered, the finish offers toasty oak.
Cherry liqueur akin to kirsch rises aromatically, along with a lavender perfume. Light and high-strung, this is a tightly wound wine, punched in acidity and savory tea. The finish displays bold swathes of oak.
Made by David Low of Anthill Farms in extremely small quantities, this is a new brand devoted to light-bodied wines from fine, cool-climate sites. Tight in dried cranberry and cherry, this is indeed a light and subtle undertaking, dusty and perfumed in rosewater fragrance.
Pinot Noir from Carneros forms the basis of this dry rosé that has seen no time in oak. Dark red-orange in color, it's a fresh, zingy take on raspberry and strawberry goodness, never cloying or annoying, that finishes in a burst of grapefruit.
More thickly structured and granular than the producer's vineyard-designates, this wine is medium in body and weight with a nice backbone of acidity. It veers into forest floor and sandalwood characteristics amid dense, dark cherry.
From the Pratt Vineyard on Sexton Road, this impressive offering is bold and lush, smoothly textured even in its concentration of thick red cherry and forest. It exalts in a shock of white pepper that is beautiful to behold.
This is a deliciously spicy exploration of wild strawberry and succulent waves of medium-bodied earth and structure. Lengthy and complex, it makes a case for the beauty that can come from blending from various vineyards.
This is a Pinot-based refresher with substantial body, dry and tart with streaks of cranberry and raspberry. The stand-out character comes from its savory element of spice and sea spray, in addition to the weightiness that makes it welcome with food.
Cherry-vanilla and cola provide a voluptuous, full-bodied outline for this estate-grown wine, given 20 months in French oak, one-quarter of it new.
From the site made famous by Merry Edwards along the appellation's Laguna Ridge, this wine envelops dark cherry, strawberry and herb flavors along a brooding, softly velvet and voluptuously body, weighted slightly in toasted oak and firm tannin.
The Brown Ranch is a relatively warm swath of the appellation, which touches Hyde Vineyard, its neighbor. This wine shows a wealth of toasty oak and black fruit on its robust frame, but opens into softening layers of black tea and blackberry in the glass. Smooth and full bodied, it's a lush, vanilla-kissed wine.
This is a consistently good offering and special bottling from the producer. The wine is earthy, stemmy and herbal, with a big tannic backbone built for aging. Pomegranate and cranberry provide a crispness of shy red fruit that opens and softens in the glass. Drink now through 2021.
Woody, herbal and resplendent in forest-floor pine and sandalwood, this is a complex, earthy and medium-bodied wine. It's low in oak, and revelatory in cool-climate seductions of pomegranate, cranberry and rhubarb compote. The finish is all black tea, with still-developing tannin structure and power.
From the hillsides of Westside Road, a goldmine of goodness, this estate-driven wine is packed with cinnamon, black-cherry clafouti and crushed rose petals. Soft and seductively silky on the palate, it's bright and deceptively light, a symphony of pomegranate, cardamon and blood orange that lingers on the finish.
High in acidity with a voluptuously sleek and supple body, this is a smoothly tamed wine. It's youthful and structured, with a mix of citrus, black cherry and cola. Medium bodied, it's memorably balanced and possesses subtle power.
A new project from Jackson Family Wines from the Boone Ridge Vineyard, this is a voluptuous Pinot delivers a substantial mouthfeel of dark blueberry fruit and mushroomy earth. Textured and grippy, its acidity is on the mark, a good go-to for family meals, especially a quiche Lorraine brimming with bacon.
This is an outright steal for a wine of this quality, a remarkable entry into the producer's wider world of knockout designates. Lush and layered, it combines decadent cherry, vanilla and spicy cinnamon-cola over an elegant, medium-bodied structure.
A grippy Pinot Noir with a hint of menthol on the nose, this wine is otherwise delicately high in acidity with a burst of tart cherry that swirls between soft, round tannins and brambly blackberry on the finish.
This is a powerfully earthy and rustic Pinot soft in tannin structure and exuberant in ripe dark cherry and berry, a touch of savory leather and tobacco peaking on the finish.
A robust, full-bodied expression of earth and forest mark this well-made wine, a touch of spearmint surrounding red and black cherry.
From a certified organic, dry-farmed vineyard, this wine exudes an overabundance of rustic earth without finding a rightful companion in fruit, with just the merest hint of allspice underplayed on the finish.
This is a complex wine, jammy and funky in pomegranate and orange notes that are acid-driven but not lacking in fruit or spice components. Soft and silky on the palate, it conveys a twinge of sandalwood to round things out on the long finish.
This wine combines fruit from several notable vineyards, including Goldrock Ridge, Thale's Estate and Wildcat Mountain. Together, they drive a focused expression of smoky dark fruit and tart, moderate acidity. The fruit shows a depth of ripeness that's intense, with a finish of spicy black tea.
Light and lean on entry, this wine builds up steam and power as it develops in the glass, becoming a robust exploration of rhubarb and cranberry. The texture on the palate is velvety and moderately rich, dotted in sultry spice.
This tiny-production wine continues to impress vintage after vintage, a small project of the Nunes family, who otherwise farm Nunes Vineyard. Aged in a selection of new and once and twice-used French oak, it impresses in wound-up kirsch, baked bread and cardamom spice, remaining both high toned and smoothly complex on the palate. Rose petals and citrus flirt into the body of the wine as well as the finish.
Baked strawberry, burnt orange and rose petal combine aromatically and on the palate in this moderately flat wine.
This tiny, family-run production shows a tremendous talent at growing grapes and making wines of great substance and sophistication. It aims for a bright, restrained and complex style, which it achieves here with aplomb. Black cherry, mint and a tease of smoky oak accent a fleshy, lengthy texture and body that shines in acidity.
The producer veers off its estate program to tap into the beauty and brawn that is Kanzler, a magnificent site of its own. Raspberry and a touch of vanilla swirl around a darkness of allspice and cola, lifted by bold acidity and a wealth of texture. Full bodied, this wine shows plenty of oak that should become more integrated in time.
Given the diverse clonal make-up of the vines that go in to this Pinot, the aromas are somewhat muted and shy. Earthy, spicy fruit flavors are characterized by baked red raspberry and strawberry notes, with the wine taking on a denseness on the palate and finish.
Named for winemaker Ross Cobb's late mother, who more than 20 years ago planted the Coastlands Vineyards' dry-farmed vines—some of the oldest in the region—this exquisitely distinctive wine celebrates all that is extreme and remarkable about the marriage of site, style and variety. Offering bay laurel in abundance, it has plenty of body to remain vibrant and complex, marked entirely in forest floor and heady allspice, with a nuance of cherry and white pepper on the finish.
Still tight, and expertly crafted and structured, this single-vineyard estate wine is meticulous in velvety, plush texture, completely seductive at every angle. Rich red cherry, pomegranate and vanilla improvise against one another without ever missing a beat, finishing in fully integrated flavor. Drink now through 2022.
This bold, boisterous wine offers a depth of black cherry and is expansive on the palate, tingling in spicy acidity and swathes of cinnamon-laced cola. Silky smooth, it hails from a selection of Dutton Ranch-farmed vineyards, including Thomas Road and Manzana, and delivers full-bodied flavor.
There is something ethereal and beyond words about this wine, a full-bodied but never intrusive expression of spicy cinnamon, black pepper and wild pine that makes it a puzzle worth trying to solve. Fruit plays a part, though softly, eking out shadows of raspberry and just-picked strawberry atop smooth, silky tannins and a measured, seductive body. The finish recalls a clove cigarette enjoyed in the rain.
Expressive in oak, earth and clove with cinnamon-cola, this savory, complex wine is also impressive in its ability to offer crisp and focused lines of citrus and fresh-picked raspberry. It teeter-totters the variety's ability to be both fruit-forward and elusively hard to reach. Streaks of thyme and rosemary figure into the mix. Drink now through 2023.
A vineyard for both Chardonnay and Pinot Noir, Allen is exquisitely detailed in this textured bottling that's weighty, with a tannin backdrop and replete with savory fruit. Wild strawberry, Bing cherry and black tea stand out, with an undercurrent of lushness that's hard to resist.
Dried herbs and coconut flakes provide an intriguing entry into this medium-bodied wine. Dotted with Asian spice and soy, the fruit is more savory than sweet.
This marks the debut of consulting winemaker Matthew Courtney's take on the estate site. It dazzles in complex notes of exotic Asian spice, lavender and crushed rock, while focused acidity provides a context of substance and depth.
This wine opens in a curious mix of cucumber and mint, herbal and inviting in its unexpected charms. Tart cherry, raspberry and black tea contribute further flavor atop a light texture of still-developing concentration and ripe fruit.
Juicy cherry and cardamom flavors give this wine approachability as well as complexity, all within a smooth, fleshy texture. Full bodied and integrated, it's spicy and deliciously aromatic, with fresh garden-like accents of rose and lavender.
There's an intensity of spicy cardamom and dried herb in this wine, otherwise layered in soft, refreshingly dry elements of cranberry and rhubarb. Darker hued than many of its counterparts, it retains a tannic grip to the finish.
Light, clear and aromatically reminiscent of pine, this smooth, soft wine offers spicy acidity around integrated tannins and oak, finishing with a length of cinnamon.
Sanguine and velvety, this richly derived wine made from one clone of Pinot Noir is tannic in black cherry, cinnamon and tar, with a lean, mid-length finish.
Mild tannin leads to integrated oak and a burst of juicy red cherry and pomegranate, laced in aromas of roses in this light-bodied wine. It finishes quick and lean.
This wine is impressively full-bodied, layered and concentrated in rich fruit—a mix of dark cherry, raspberry and toasty oak that finds life in buoyant, freshly supportive acidity and a light reckoning of spice.
Light in color this wine features gorgeous acidity and a lining of fresh, vibrant red cherry, adorned completely by a pretty rose-petal bouquet. Though gentle in color and body, the texture moves along, providing plenty of body to keep the wine freshly alive.
Compelling aromas of rose and lavender mark this fairly full-bodied wine, giving it a lift on the nose and palate. Raspberry and black licorice take over the taste, concentrating flavor and intensity toward the lengthy, earthy finish.
A taste of sarsaparilla and fresh strawberry hulls combine in this soft, velvety and well-structured wine, the bouquet floral in rose petals and earthy dew. Medium to light bodied, it's a lovely sipping wine that will also pair well with food.
This is winemaker Ross Cobb's own family project, from extremely cool sites along the Sonoma Coast, including the family's own Coastlands vineyard. Here, with Rice-Spivak, he skirts the edge of ripeness, producing a light, bright wine that's at first hard to penetrate. Faint notes of tart cherry and pomegranate weave through like a fog, a seasoning of allspice on the finish.
From a selection of clones planted in Goldridge sandy loam soils, this is a dark and savory Pinot Noir. Ripe and oaked, it presents a balanced combination of cherry fruit flavor and soda spice.
Intensely oaky, this Carneros Pinot is brooding in ripe plum fruit and straightforwardly layered with approachable fruit flavor and mellowing tannins. Enjoy now.
This lightly bodied, elegant wine is subtle and crisp—a study in white pepper and leather that's both complex and tightly layered. Cool climate to its core, it shows floral aromas and flavors of rose petal and lavender as hints of rhubarb and tart cherry make their way onto the quiet palate.
From a cool site in the Sebastopol Hills greatly influenced by the cooling fog and winds of the Petaluma Gap, this wine is velvety in texture, with a gritty tannic backbone. Cedar, eucalyptus and savory tea complement an array of juicy red fruit and blueberry, with structure and balance at the wine's core.
The counterpart to Lynn's Blend, named for a co-proprietor, Anisya's showcases the lighter side of the Sonoma Coast in its exuberance of red cherry, orange and strawberry. Textured, it features bright acidity and layers of freshness, teased in black tea and wild truffle.
This is a bright, integrated and extremely impressive blend of different estate-vineyard sources. Effortlessly enjoyed, it's nonetheless plenty complex underneath the pleasing fruit and acidity. Tart plum, raspberry, pomegranate and touches of cola and mocha combine for a seamless, satisfying experience.
Bliss Block lies within the property's Quail Hill Vineyard and is the coolest two acres on the estate. Spicy acidity and dark earth support a full-bodied, oaky imprint of complexity and structure, dotted in savory cranberry and black tea.
This is a spicy, fully plush and complete wine, integrated in oak and tannin with a strength of black-cherry compote that gives an extra edge. The length and texture are impressive, showcasing the power of the vineyard in a ripe, even vintage, and some deft winemaking as well.
Clear, light color reveals the elegance at the core of this coastal wine. It reigns in ripeness without sacrificing flavor or complexity. Stemmy, earthy overtones meet a vibrantly spicy bite of cherry and white pepper. The silky texture compels one to want more.
This is the producer's first vintage from Hudson, one of the most sought-after sites in the appellation, and one not widely planted to the variety. Light and lush with a velvety ripeness, this special wine shines in pomegranate, earthy truffle and a turn of smoked meat. Robust, it maintains balance amidst its brawn.
A full-bodied blend from different vineyard sites, this wine celebrates darker, denser aspects of black cherry and cranberry alongside a savory, herbal component that persists on the palate, finished up by a mouthwatering mix of orange and chocolate. Complex and robust in tannin, it needs time to breathe before being enjoyed.
Cloudy and reddish-brown, this is a funky, spritzy wine with a taste of red cherry that falls somewhat flat on the finish.
A tiny-production Pinot by a new producer, it makes a stunning debut. Owners James Hahn and Mila Chanamé are childhood friends with longtime Anderson Valley vineyard manager Norman Kobler and the shared roots have clearly put them in sync. The wine is perfumey in lilac and violet with a lightly textured and seductive mouthfeel that's exotic in just-ripe cherry and raspberry.
From one of Marin's coolest and best-farmed vineyard sites, this offering is intoxicatingly pretty in violets and herbs, and fleshy in the mouth with gorgeous texture. Layered, structured and dancing in acidity, this is a Marin Pinot not to miss.
The aromas in this wine are sexy and seductive in dark fruit and spice, and the acidity bristles against a fuller, brooding body. The finish ties things up nicely if not a bit too soon.
Soft tannins support a lighter style of leather, strawberry and herb in this structured, aromatic wine, speckled in cherry cola.
Clear, light and varietal, this wine ping-pongs between subtle cinnamon and Asian spice around dark cherry and earth, with a big, juicy hit of oak and intense tannin. It finishes full-figured and robustly concentrated.
A mild undertone of funky earth and rustic leather provides intrigue and individuality to this release, one of the larger offerings by the winery. Cherry, pomegranate and cranberry all make appearances on a palate that is lush and expansively fruity, finishing in memorable minerality.
Dried black cherry and a streak of cola mark a wine with decent concentration and full-bodied richness that gets better in the glass as it goes. The finish is persistent and balanced in a ripeness of fruit with freshness.
Earthy, juicy and leathery, this wine was made from three clones of Pinot Noir. Each was fermented separately with a percentage of whole cluster, then blended together for this age-worthy concoction that's complex and compelling. Pomegranate and fig combine on the palate, along with more savory elements of allspice and coconut, finishing with a crispness of orange. Cellar through 2023.
Set within the smaller Green Valley AVA, Hallberg is 100 acres of varying aspects and weather, much of the site impacted by ocean winds and fog. The wine reflects this in its bright, citrusy acidity and earth, measured by elegant layers of orange, cranberry and strawberry. Cedar and black tea give it an exotic edge.
From an estate block planted to a mysterious suitcase clone, this is an insanely memorable and indelible Pinot. High in acidity, it discloses a touch of cedar on the back palate, richly luxurious and just aching for wild Sonoma duck adorned in a cherry reduction sauce. Cherry pit, berry, lavender and violet play on the nose and tongue, infusing the wine with a playfulness balanced by power.
Crafted from estate-grown fruit—a marriage of Pommard and Swan clones—Golden Mean comes from three distinct vineyard blocks, the Pommard fermented whole-cluster. It opens with dark, ripe layers of lush cherry-vanilla, the wine concentrated and rich in oak yet balanced in acidity. On the finish is a mix of leather, licorice and wild herb. Tuck it away through 2020–2022.
Brooding in dark cherry and earthy spice, this fully figured wine offers well-integrated oak. With a savory and powerful profile, it has a forceful grip on the palate accented by black tea, truffle and juicy vibrancy. From a mix of Dijon clones (37 and 777), some fermented whole-cluster, this is a structured, wine from a meticulously farmed coastal site.
Dark, concentrated and grippy, this is a sizable Pinot from a cool, coveted vineyard. Juicy blue and blackberry fruit dominate on the nose and palate, surrounded by exotic cedar, clove, oak and toffee, a swipe of vanilla lurking behind the front flavors. The big tannins will appreciate time in the cellar, through 2022–2024.
Of the four De Coelo Pinot Noirs sourced from this one special site, Arbore Sacra is the most earthy, savory and viscous. Grapes come from the Calera clone, beautifully structured and shyly subtle. In this graceful wine, expect nuanced layers of Asian spice and blackberry, with finely honed tannins and a lingering, spicy finish.
Mild tannin leads to integrated oak and a burst of juicy red cherry and pomegranate, laced in aromas of roses in this light-bodied wine. It finishes quick and lean.
This full-bodied wine has an elegant bouquet that invites, before pomegranate, plum and orange peel figure in on the palate. Powerful on the finish, it features hints of coconut and vanilla around the leathery texture.
Sanguine and velvety, this richly derived wine made from one clone of Pinot Noir is tannic in black cherry, cinnamon and tar, with a lean, mid-length finish.
In crafting his first Pinot Noir for Heintz, winemaker Hugh Chappelle has delivered a wine that's pretty and delicate, softly adorned in velvety texture and faint, balanced cranberry and cherry. Riding a perfect wave between savory and sweet, it would be delicious with grilled salmon.
The vineyard is planted to Dijon clones of Pinot Noir. The result is a concentrated, plush wine, herbal and savory with tightly hewn tannins, a tartness of cranberry and rhubarb, and a substantial finish of cinnamon, clove and darker fruit. The balance between the wine's richness and more ethereal components is nicely drawn.
With a concentrated bouquet of black cherry and leathery earth, this straddles the richness of California fruit with an Old World layering of savory sumptuousness. Built with structure and subtle acidity, it is meant to be enjoyed at the table, a pork tenderloin or mushroom quiche among the pairing possibilities.
Chock-a-block full of strawberry, black cherry and a sliver of orange peel, this wine is big-boned, well-structured and fleshy. Mouthfilling and juicy, the palate shows touches of black tea and tobacco, making for a lively tension between the earthiness and exuberance of fruit. Drink now through 2022.
Shy in the glass, this wine needs more time in bottle to unravel its complexities of rose petal and cardamom, flanked by crisp red cherry and raspberry. Tangy acidity is the star and backbone of the lovely, structured wine, which is delightful now, but worth cellaring through 2023.
This bottling comes from the winery's Rhinefarm Estate Vineyard near the town of Sonoma, planted to eight separate Pinot Noir blocks. Savory in cranberry and cassis and quite austere, it's balanced in aromas of rose petal and a taste of black tea. Tannins are ripe yet firm, providing structure to help age the wine further.
The producer expertly captures the mix of coolness and intensity so true to the appellation, a tangle of brooding black cherry, blackberry and underlying smoke, that's both decadent and succulent on the palate, deeply satisfying in its finish of chocolate and black licorice.
This small producer continues to impress with this floral, impressively made effort, sourced from several vineyards, including Terra de Promissio. Sly layers of raspberry define juicy acidity and sizable tannin and oak that support but don't intrude. The finish continues the theme of vibrancy, lingering in cherry and dried cranberry.
Rough, sinewy and oaky, this full-bodied wine is concentrated and thick, a robust expression of bitter black fruit and leather.
An inexpensive, large-production Pinot that's overly earthy and a little thin on the finish with a smidgen of residual sugar thrown in too, but reasonably priced and decently quaffable with food.
From the owners of another marquee vineyard nearby, Sun Chase, this wine is expressive and expansive on the palate, dark red-purple in color, thick and dense on the palate. Blackberry, black plum and black pepper rise to the fore, built along a continuum of earthy forest floor. Tannin and oak are interwoven well, before a soft finish.
This lovely, luxurious wine hails from the Terra de Promissio Vineyard. It stands out for its thickness of earthy forest floor and exuberant fruit, a mix of candied raspberry, blueberry and cherry. Building structure and power as it opens in the glass, it finishes strongly tannic, suggesting more time in the cellar may be of benefit; hold through 2023.
Crunchy red fruit is front and center in this vineyard-designate, well capturing the tone of the appellation. Raspberry, black tea and brooding tannins surround a light-bodied frame further highlighted with violet and cardamom.
Dark-pink-orange in color, this wine is muted in floral tones of beauty and simplicity. Crisp, clean and simple layers of creamy vanilla are mixed with Meyer lemon and white peach. Refreshing and light on its feet, it's memorable in its stony minerality and its full embrace of citrus intrigue.
Smoky, with traces of cherry and vanilla, this is a heavily tannic version of the variety, seemingly aged in full-strength oak. Aromas are elusive and the finish brief.
Funky earth and a diluted body make for a generic experience with this wine, which simultaneously offers a large tannin profile plus a weedy, dried herb component.
This is Londer Vineyard fruit though the vineyard is no longer a designation of its own. Still, like vintages past, Fulcrum has worked its magic with the long-coveted spot, crafting an herbal, savory Pinot that's mouth-filling in blueberry fruit. Voluptuously soft, this is a great wine for the table, perhaps paired with a pork roast dripping in mushrooms.
A trove of wild strawberry wraps around a concentration of full-bodied smoothness in this deep and brooding wine marked by a juicy core and plenty of length on the finish.
A rich depth of flavor is at the heart of this wine, a mix of blueberry, blackberry and cherry that shows a generosity on the nose and palate. Bright acidity lifts the deeper, darker notes of toasted oak and cola.
Earth, mushroom and forest floor intrigue from sip one in this thick, densely structured effort from the great site. Cardamom, pine needle and cranberry contribute additional intrigue and spiciness to the palate, which is buoyed by bright, lengthy acidity and integrated oak.
Made as a barrel and block selection from the producer's own estate vineyard along River Road, this is an inaugural release. It impresses in spicy rose, black tea and geranium, supple in tannin and structure with a robust, full-bodied lushness on the palate that lingers.
Light and carbonic in tone, with a slight spritz to the acidity, this wine is ethereal, laced with black tea and tart cranberry flavors.
From organically grown estate grapes, all of them Hanzell clone, this Pinot is light, earthy and elegant in its herbal composition and soft body. While approachable now, it has enough structure to last through 2018.
Lightness defines this wine, from its body to bouquet. Fresh-picked strawberry, cranberry and herb commingle nicely, but quite shyly, the fruit forwardness subtle and the structure refined. Spikes of mushroom and tea peak throughout.
This affordable wine is a testament to skilled sourcing and blending, using choice grapes from up and down the coast. Spicy cherry, forest and black tea aromas provide plenty varietal character, while medium-bodied weight and juiciness are lifted by bright acidity.
From two blocks of a vineyard above Freestone that's strongly influenced by the ocean, this wine is marked by leathery pepper, baked cherry and an exotic mix of savory spice. Medium-bodied, it has a density that's both plush and lush.
Heftier than the producer's Platt Vineyard Pinot, this estate-grown wine features astoundingly bright acidity around dense black cherry fruit. It saw 10% stem inclusion during fermentation and was aged in 20% new oak for just over a year, a recipe that works to buoy the wine and give it plenty of complexity.
A light, straightforward and focused wine, 100% varietal, this offers cranberry, mushroom and a complexity of tannin and oak. High acidity dances around fresh layers of strawberry and raspberry on the palate, with a grippy, cinnamon-spiced finish.
The producer continues to hit it out of the park with this vintage of Pinot, offering a gorgeously balanced interpretation of a marquee vineyard site. Rose petal and lavender aromas evolve into flavors of rosemary, high-toned orange peel, dried cherry and cranberry on the palate, keeping things ethereal throughout. Smooth and medium bodied, the tannins are coy and the entire experience memorable.
Juicy and earthy, this lovely appellation wine is voluptuous with a spicy thread. Blueberry and huckleberry fruit meld seamlessly into savory bites of tree bark and forest as the whole offers length and breadth.
This is a heck of a value for a wine that would shine no matter its price. Juicy in exuberant red fruit along the lines of cherry, plum and pomegranate, it shares deeper undertones of concentration and richness on the midpalate, with subtle accents of rose, cardamom and dried herb.
A project of Master Sommelier Geoff Kruth with the assistance of winemaker Megan Glaab of Ryme Cellars, this is a light beguiling take on the famous appellation's most famous variety—one wrapped in crisp crunchy red fruit and floral aromatics of rose. Dried cherry highlights tight focused acidity and soft delicate layers of silky texture for a satisfying combination of elegance and quiet oak.
A cynical take on Pinot Noir offering little in the way of fruit or personality. It's overly oaky and dark in color, perhaps due to the 5% Petit Verdot listed in the blend, and overly ripe on the finish.
Lightly colored and textured, this is an earthy, fresh wine that's delicately laced with rose petal, strawberry spice and mint. Light in body but concentrated enough to pair with food, it's lovely with a lingering finish.
From 40-plus-year-old vines planted on old rootstock, this wine is tangy in pomegranate, rhubarb and kirsch, but marked most by an irresistible depth of earthy truffle and black tea. Fine, dusty tannins add to the complexity of the mouthfeel and finish, with a hint of cinnamon at the end.
This estate-grown wine is tart and tangy, with a backbone of enviable structure. Orange citrus adds an illusion of heightened acidity that balances the burly tannins that give strength and power. Red cherry and pomegranate round out savory clove and black tea on the way to an earthy finish. Drink now through 2023.
A light, bright, affordable quaffer, this youthful wine is flinty with a juicy core of fresh-pressed grapefruit and lemon peel. It retains varietal character and a buoyancy throughout, finishing with grace and persistence.
Tight and youthful, this wine unwinds slowly, in full command of its power and intensity. Compost, wild strawberry and a hit of citrus give life to the generous tannin and oak character, while savory black tea and cocoa flavors provide bite.
A microscopic amount of this wine was made, a sad reality given its lovely, creamy texture and seductive layerings of black raspberry, wild strawberry and vanilla. Full in both body and weight, it manages to coax the tannins to the background, where they play a supportive, complementary role.
This wine made from estate-grown, dry-farmed fruit has a large presence on the nose, offering earthy rose and lavender aromas. Velvety on the palate, it broods in tart cherry and rhubarb flavors, with allspice and toasted oak notes that accentuate its spice on the long finish.
This wine has a lovely rustic component that suggests forested earth and leaves. Juicy and explosive in cardamom and black cherry flavors, it offers a full-bodied experience of ripeness and concentration.
Rich, dark and concentrated, this hearty red is somewhat reduced and grippy, with a layering of wild strawberry and earth overlaid in solid oak. It'll appeal to fans of bigger-bodied wines.
This Lodi area Pinot Noir is fruit forward, particularly on the nose, though the lucious notes carry through on the palate as well, buoyed by oak.
This wine is straightforward in approach and uncomplicated in its light-bodied gathering of cola, pine forest and tea notes.
Dark color and a punch of smoky oak underline this wine's big burly hold of tannin and ripe fruit. Tobacco, tar and baked cherry highlight the flavor wheel.
Velvety smooth and big-boned, this wine shows crisp red fruit wrapped in tart acidity and subtle oak. Bay laurel, spearmint and green tea add savory complexity.
Juicy, fresh and lively, this is a light-bodied effort with a big presence on the palate in terms of rich mouthfeel and velvety tannin. Blueberry, cherry and a pronouncement of forest floor play well together to offer both savory and fruit-tinged sweet.
Spicy cardamom is part of the package here, where a robust flavoring of pomegranate and wild strawberry shine brightest. Smooth and tart, this medium-bodied wine is complex in additional elements of freshly tilled soil and black tea.
Smoky bacon and a bittersweet element of black tea make for an exotically spicy, complex and full-bodied wine from the mighty vineyard site overlooking the Petaluma Gap. Black cherry, pomegranate and cardamom are wrapped in a swaddling of toasted oak, while the mouthfeel is dense and concentrated.
Made entirely from Pinot Noir grapes, this is a light, ethereal and lovely sparkling wine, faintly pink in hue with high-toned, nuanced layers of red cherry and orange. This is one to enjoy on its own or at the table, picnic blanket or tailgating from the back of a truck, preferably with soft cheeses.
This ripe, boldly made wine offers a rich tease of Dr Pepper that pleases the palate, before complex characteristics takes over. Black tea, forest floor, currant and spicy acidity are memorably interwoven with dense black fruit.
Seductively tart in lemon pith, cranberry and pomegranate, this refreshing, light-bodied quaff is infinitely enjoyable, both on its own or at the table. It continues to expand on the palate into an increasing array of fresh flavors, finishing in cherry and orange.
This compelling Monument Tree Pinot offers a sauvage earthiness, layers of red cherry and blueberry fruit and a depth of character packaged deftly around its silky smooth texture. This is a knockout wine, a testament to the power of great farming and winemaking in a cool year.
Smoky bacon and a bittersweet element of black tea make for an exotically spicy, complex and full-bodied wine from the mighty vineyard site overlooking the Petaluma Gap. Black cherry, pomegranate and cardamom are wrapped in a swaddling of toasted oak, while the mouthfeel is dense and concentrated.
Made entirely from Pinot Noir grapes, this is a light, ethereal and lovely sparkling wine, faintly pink in hue with high-toned, nuanced layers of red cherry and orange. This is one to enjoy on its own or at the table, picnic blanket or tailgating from the back of a truck, preferably with soft cheeses.
Cinnamon-cola characterizes this soft, rounded expression of subtle dark cherry and herb. It comes from a sloped vineyard in the middle of the Russian River Valley near Olivet Lane, where moderate temperatures are impacted by morning fog. Layers of toasty oak grace the finish.
Earthy rose, plum and rhubarb mark the entry of this soft, seamlessly textured reserve wine. Medium-bodied, it skews toward savory characteristics, most notably black tea.
There's no doubt this estate-grown wine is at first funky on the nose, a mix of forest, mint and farmhouse cheese. It develops in the glass to embrace its quirks, complementing them with vibrant acidity, ripe texture, and hints of orange, rhubarb and spicy clove.
From a section of the vineyard planted to only one clone, Paige's is luscious and velvety, smoothly decadent in sanguine, tangy fruit. Full bodied and in balance, it suggests a wild note of mint or bay leaf, something savory as one would find in a cassoulet or beef stew, two things with which it would pair well.
Dripping in earth, kir and fresh raspberry, this is a stellar wine from the heart of the appellation, estate-grown from a four-acre spot planted to a trio of clones. Spirited and refreshing, it dances in acidity and a floral back note that's compelling, wrapped in cinnamon and mocha.
This wine blends all 12 clones of Pinot Noir grown on the property, to tremendous effect. Sanguine, it traffics in pretty pomegranate and cranberry, with a quenching taste of kirsch-like cherry. Lightly spiced, it delivers an end note of milk chocolate on the lengthy finish, a stellar, drinkable wine from start to finish.
This is a lighter style of the variety from a stellar vineyard, a crisp take on red cherry, dried cranberry and pomegranate that's deliciously balanced and sublime. A subtle suggestion of oak and spice peeks out on the lengthy finish, making for a complete, extremely quaffable wine.
This wine comes from a vineyard planted in the early 2000s in the Sebastopol Hills by Charlie Chenoweth for the Jenkins family, a country music trio consisting of Nancy Jenkins and her two daughters. It is inviting and seductive in black cherry and baking spices. Tightly wound, it has nuance and a lingering afterthought of savory pepper and meat.
Heady, beguiling aromatics dominate and invite in this well-made, robustly full-bodied wine, which is spicy and tart in baked plum, cherry, cranberry and a twist of orange. Zesty acidity gives it a kick on the palate, buoyed by a moderate tannin structure.
Perfumed like a summer garden, this wine is spicy and oaky, offering a wealth of cardamom and cola. Dark cherry, cranberry, orange and rhubarb vie for a balance between tart and succulent, the acidity ruling the day in the end.
Full bodied and sizable in intent, this wine successfully offers a length and breadth of tart red cherry, cranberry and earthy black tea, providing varietal character in spades. Additional elements of strawberries just pulled from the ground add to the feral, natural aspect of the wine.
Thick and concentrated in black and red fruit, this is a spicy, robust and oaky wine that shows the power of the vintage and site.
Tight-grained tannins wrap around full-bodied earthiness and fruit, while a mixture of strawberry and cherry is met by bay and a hint of mint. Bright, lively acidity adds to the experience, which succeeds in length and depth.
This wine is put together from multiple vineyard sources, including the well-known Morelli Lane and Widdoes, all farmed by the Duttons. Larger in production than many of the vineyard-designates, it offers baked bread and juicy overtones of cranberry-raspberry layered atop luxuriously toasted oak. It'll show well at the table.
This sultry, supple wine exudes aromas and flavors of baking spices and dark cherry pie, remaining brooding atop a full-bodied texture. Despite the oaky density, it retains a floral back note and bright, lengthy finish.
Three appellations are called into service for this red, the majority from Sonoma and Monterey counties, with the remainder from tiny San Benito County. Together the fruit feels somewhat unformed while savory, a hodgepodge of red berry with a high-toned finish.
From a great vineyard, this Pinot is earthy and fairly robust in style, dry and balanced in acidity with a thick texture. Cherry and cranberry dominate in flavor and aroma, the wine aged 16 months in French oak, 25% new.
With 4% Petite Sirah, possibly for color, this wine shows a preponderance of caramel-vanilla oak and big bones of body and concentration. Unfussy, it softens in the glass, showing cherry-cola flavor and a dash of herb.
Burnt tea, forest floor and crushed leaf aromas ride atop dense layers of turned earth and stemmy rose scents in this intriguing wine from a beloved site. Moderate acidity keeps it fresh, highlighting its succulent black cherry fruit with lavender and Asian spice notes that emerge on the finish.
Smoky bark and cola notes are cradled in reductive oak in this robust wine from a fantastically farmed site. Its dark berry flavor is supported by velvety tannin and juicy acidity, both of which provide moderate structure.
Perfumed with rose and lavender, this wine has robust tannins and dominant oak notes, both in support of its ripe, concentrated red fruit. Woody, herbal components complement the lushness, framed by gravelly texture.
Light in color, this wine has an exotic nose of dried herb, forest floor and wild mushroom scents. Tart, nervy acidity accents its rhubarb and cranberry flavors as a sprinkling of white pepper teases.
Rich in heady cinnamon and aromatics of a perfumed rose in bloom this is a beautifully integrated, well-proportioned Pinot Noir, its black cherry and blackberry complemented by a depth of earth and mushroom and silky concentration of tannins.
This wine is a standout in an outstanding portfolio of 2013 vineyard- and block-designated wines from this producer. Five Sisters is big and burly at first, a fistful of leather and Asian baking spices that demands notice. Then subtlety takes over in lithe, sinewy waves of blueberry and blackberry, followed by a touch of licorice on the nearly endless finish.
From mighty Kanzler comes this ripe, densely tannic wine, plush like candy, it's a celebration of black cherry, dried herbs and vanilla oak, rewarding in its nod to hedonism in balance. The minerality is pronounced and persistent, allowing the wine to breathe. Drink now through 2023.
There's an exuberance of succulent black cherry and raspberry within this medium-bodied to lighter-style of wine. It offers a stronger presence of fruit and spicy clove and cinnamon on the palate than on the nose. Leathery, firm tannins provide support without distraction.
Winemaker Karen Cakebread has coaxed high-toned highlights of cherry, strawberry and currant from an underlying richness of baked bread and wild earth. Tingling acidity makes for a succulent palate and impressively long finish.
Wohler contains the Wadenswil clone of the variety, one known for earthy aromatics. This wine is indeed floral and spicy, a mix of rose petals and tamarind. Enjoyable now, it's lush and meaty as well as supple on the palate, with buoyancy to its ripeness.
Rhubarb, cranberry and strawberry mix on the nose in this richly inviting wine that is textured and not overwhelming in weight. Featuring electric acidity, the wine finishes boldly in blackberry and licorice.
A softly unfussy wine with moderate acidity, this is rounded and light-bodied, with rose petal and red cherry aromas. The oak is subtle and supportive.
Rose aromas emerge on the nose of this block-designated, light-bodied wine. It's full of crisp red fruit and bright acidity.
This is a subtle, svelte and elegant wine, floral in rose petals and violet, the crisp, bright red fruit leaning more toward cranberry and pomegranate than juicy strawberry. With the oak and acidity well-integrated, it provides a seamless, delicious experience, touched by a taste of black tea on the finish.
Planted on a relatively cool site for the Russian River, the Laguna Ridge, this Pinot is velvety and lush in baked strawberry and black raspberry, a celebration of finely grown, ripe fruit, with sharp-edged acidity and waves of savory mocha. With pronounced oak that mellows in the glass, it should only become more interesting with a few more years in the cellar, through 2022.
Pink-orange in color, this is a tangy, high-acid wine that's not for everyone, given its bracing mix of tangerine and grapefruit. Light-bodied, yet textured, it's a good quaffer and food-friendly companion.
This wine presents itself initially as having a bold, big body, yet is actually light on its feet as it opens, revealing aromas of cherry liqueur, rhubarb joined with a funk of black licorice and sassafras.
A 100% varietal wine fermented in stainless steel, this is a bright, lively tangle of cherry and orange built around bristling acidity that practically sizzles on the palate. Light-bodied and plenty crisp, it mellows to show length and breadth on the finish.
A brooding texture and fully layered concentration of intense flavor spark the palate and mind in this estate wine, which is showy in cola, bark, black cherry and black tea. Medium bodied and well-made, it finds balance between its coastal influence, its crisp acidity and the burlier aspects of fruit and weight.
Showing just a touch of reduction, this wine is bright, crunchy and explosive on the palate. The palate shows a mix of raspberry, cherry and cranberry that's full of flavor. Seductively smooth, it should continue to evolve and expand with time, as the wine is just beginning to unravel its complex notes of baking spice, vanilla and tea.
Winemaker James MacPhail continues to refine his solo project with this Annapolis-sourced effort, a smooth layered expression of baked strawberry and rose petal herbaceousness. Lingering fruitiness makes it lovely to enjoy, as the oak remains a background player in full support of the succulence and ripe power. Still young, it should continue to open further over time.
The producer sources from multiple sites across the appellation, including its own estate, in this value-driven red. Minty bay leaf provides an undeniable sense of earthiness, as medium weight and acidity pierce through. It's silky in spice.
This wine has an overwhelmingly smoky character, like charred forest floor, along with layers of sweet vanilla in the background. Time in the cellar may allow it to meld, but for now it's meant for lovers of smoke and oak.
A special bottling commemorating Edwards' 40 years as a winemaker, this wine is made from a clonal selection created by her in 1975. The fruit is from both the Coopersmith and Georganne vineyards, made in a tiny amount. Built to age, it wraps earthy dried herbs around cherry, strawberry and boysenberry, with a juicy core of acidity. A forested hint of spearmint dances at its edge, as strong suggestions of bacon and pepper build on the finish. Drink now through 2028.
An estate-grown wine in its second vintage, this comes from the cooler-climate hills of the coast. This plush wine is dark brown in color and brimming in stinky earth—a rich, funky and concentrated expression that's herbal, spicy and shy in raspberry fruit.
Dark pink in color, this wine offers a pleasing brightness of strawberry and grapefruit, with moderate acidity that retains body and texture. It finishes ripely succulent.
From the producer's family estate site planted in 1982 on Eastside Road, this is a nuanced elegant expression of the variety, earthy and pungent in baked bread. Baked plum, strawberry and dried herb are accented by forest floor and a rich hit of maple.
Muted on the nose, this light-bodied effort is velvety in texture, with a bite of tannin met by equal parts acidity and freshness. Cranberry and black tea highlight the appealing flavor profile.
This is an intensely earthy wine, showing a rich bouquet of rose garden, geranium and wild pine. Soft on the palate and supple in tannin, it retains a savory edge throughout, spicy in Asian five spice, nutmeg and orange peel.
Structured in firm tannins, this seamless wine offers juicy red cherry and strawberry most significantly, followed by dried herb and hits of baking spice. Layered without being overly concentrated, it's made and owned by Chris Pittenger, who also makes Rhône-inspired wines for Skinner Vineyards in El Dorado County. The name honors wife Sarah's rounded belly while expecting the couple's first child.
Dark in color, this muted, thick and brooding wine is rich, intense and still developing. Floral and juicy, it offers wild berry and cherry flavor, accented by a taste of vanilla and caramel. Concentrated, this wine will please Cabernet drinkers, who will enjoy its peppery, oaky finish.
This is made from Pinot Noir grapes grown in two unlikely places in the Napa Valley: the Foss Valley near Atlas Peak and Spring Mountain. There is incredible deliciousness going on in this ever-so-lightly hued wine that is vibrantly crisp in grapefruit rind and earthy cranberry and raspberry. With the slightest salinity on the back palate, it remains thirst-quenching and memorable from start to finish.
This basic, inexpensive Pinot has Syrah and Viognier blended, but overall the wine is fairly generic, with a streak of smokiness in the background.
There's a compelling note of candied maraschino on the nose of this wine, an extreme sense of just-picked wild strawberry near the ocean. With a briny afterthought and plenty of earth, it offers high acidity around a firmly structured body and finish.
This vineyard-designate opens with intoxicating aromas of violet and rose before expanding on the palate into seamless, sturdy waves of juicy pomegranate and red cherry. Earthy and somewhat feral, it ends with a note of black tea.
From the producer's estate ranch, a coveted source of Chardonnay and Pinot Noir, this is a 100% stainless-steel wine, low in ripeness, that's enthusiastic in watermelon, cherry and strawberry, smelling like summer. Dark pink-red in color, it's crisp, light, tangy in acidity and everything you want in a quaffing wine.
This is an impressive wine at the price and production level, a great go-to for multiple occasions. It delivers earthy, candied strawberry around a light, bright core, remaining soft and smooth in texture and intensity, finishing with a tease of milk chocolate.
This inviting Pinot is broadly ripe and fully lush in earthy, spicy layers, dark cherry and plum that plays across the palate. With a long, substantial finish, iot suits pork roasts and bacon-wrapped scallops.
From a biodynamic-certified vineyard, this is wildly spicy wine, taut in acidity and sizable tannin. It shows a dark funkiness of baked plum, clove and leather wrapped in more vibrant hits of cherry and orange.
This is a complex and introverted vineyard-designate. Sour cherry, pomegranate and rhubarb surround a wildness of anise and medium-weighted tannin. Earthy and varietal, it should pair well with pork-driven fare.
There is an opulence of ripe, black fruit in this Pinot, a selection from various vineyard sources throughout the appellation. Floral in violet and rose, it offers rich cardamom-cinnamon spice and a balanced taste of cola and jam.
Crafted from grapes grown in two estate vineyards, Pastorale and Quarter Moon, this wine deftly provides a taste of wild strawberry and feral forest floor, offering concentration within a lean frame. The finish memorably imprints lasting cardamom spice.
This was made from a saignée after a full-day's skin contact, resulting in a sultry, soulful, tiny-production wine that's refreshing and fruity in orange and lime, dry and completely in balance.
Full bodied, savory and retentive of tannin and oak, this is a robust, rich and ripe wine, with a tang of dark cherry, cola and vanilla. Youthful, it has ample acidity to keep it fresh in the glass, but allow it to open over time.
A youthful wine given 50% whole-cluster fermentation, this is complex and delicate, restrained in oak while being expressive in roses and bitter black tea. Soft, pungent black fruit provides a savory element that's entirely welcome and interesting, before a freshness takes hold on the finish.
Spicy strawberry and cherry hover over forest floor and a tangle of tangy acidity that keeps this wine fresh and vibrantly compelling. Full bodied and robust, it maintains a balance in the glass, making it both food-friendly and an option on its own.
Feral and smoky, this light-bodied, light-colored estate-farmed wine gives way to dark cherry, white pepper and pronounced floral elements of rose and violet. Given time in 35% new French oak, it's structured and intriguing, with a tannic punch on the finish.
A new designation from the producer, made in tiny amounts, this wine is sourced from vines on the Donum Ranch property grafted to cuttings from the Ferguson Vineyard. Cardamom, dark plum and earthy black cherry mingle on the palate around medium-bodied, softly layered texture and a medium length. A persistence of savory black pepper and black olive tease on the finish.
Light in color it reveals intense aromas of ripe, baked cherry fruit and pungent earth, streaks of herbal cinnamon and clove playing in the background.
This offering comes from a two-acre parcel of Quail Hill Vineyard, the coolest pocket of the site. Earthy, herbal and savory, it's seamless in black cherry, clove and plum. A bite of acidity enlivens the palate before a finish of tannin and oak.
Sourced from a hillside block of the vineyard, Floodgate is about juicy, velvety texture with a side of grip, offering a fully decadent mouthfeel and sense of luxury. Floral on the nose, its flavors are nuanced, a touch of strawberry and cherry dotted in cola spice.
Light and vibrantly high in integrated acidity, this wine is complex and savory, but white pepper is a constant. Along the nuanced layers are an earthy patch of wild strawberry and cardamom that persists elegantly on the palate.
Tight-grained tannin plays a supporting role to this wine's undeniable earthiness, a mix of compost and wild mushroom. Subtle on the nose, the savory character gives way eventually to a density and concentration of brighter flavors, from cherry and citrus to spiky pine.
Light in color and stemmy and spicy in equal parts, this light, bright wine is complex and intriguing in its offering of white pepper, baker's yeast and cranberry coated in vanilla. It delivers flavor and nuance in a pleasing showcase of the variety.
On the borderline of exuding overripe fruit aromas and flavors, this wine reins it in to reveal juicy blackberry and raspberry around firm, sizable tannins.
A weight of oak and tannin marks this full-blown, bombastic expression of the variety. It has a reduced quality to the fruit and an unexpected twist of mint.
Tight at first, this elegant Pinot from cooler climes is velvety on the palate, with a back note of juicy blueberry fruit that maintains an edge of acidity and tension. Earthy black tea wraps the fruit in a savory core of intrigue and desire.
Voluptuous in wild strawberry, cranberry and tart cherry, Quintus is light and suggestively chalky, balanced in velvety tannins and a backbone of structure. Dancing in the background is a taste of black tea and dark, fragrant earth.
Strong, earthy and herbal, this dances in wild strawberry and dark cherry that's concentrated in texturally pleasing layers leading up to a potent, spicy finish.
Dark reddish-orange in color, this medium-bodied rosé offers refreshing acidity against a dramatic backdrop of intensely etched flavors, a mix of dark cherry, strawberry and blood orange that refreshes and rewards.
Tannic and spicy, this wine settles in the glass to offer a glorious spectrum of medium-bodied black cherry, blackberry and rhubarb. Along the way it threads a savory undertone of forest floor and chamomile tea.
A limited-production wine made to commemorate the Supreme Court ruling on marriage equality, this full-bodied vineyard-designated wine is softly layered in bold, rich huckleberry pie and strawberry flavors. Juicy on the palate, the fruit is seasoned with clove, cola and a hint of earth.
Dense in packed earth and forest floor, this well-integrated and silky wine bursts in black cherry, blueberry pie and cardamom. With a beautiful flower on the label, it conjures floral orange blossom from the bottle, speaking elegance to power.
Burly oak and tannin surround black and blue fruit sourced from a vineyard atop a knoll in the cool Green Valley. Earth and herb come into play midpalate, providing a savory underbelly beneath the power. This wine needs time; cellar through 2023.
A very good Pinot Noir out of Potter Valley, one of inland Mendocino's cooler spots, made by Kenny Likitprakong, who also makes the Hobo and Banyan wines. This cinnamon and red cherry-tinged Pinot opens up with aplomb, getting more and more Burgundian in nose as it goes and at 13.5% alcohol, will get you pleasantly through a meal.
Made from a selection of high-end vineyards otherwise sourced for single-vineyard wines, this is a stellar offering and a steal of a deal for the quality, a mix of funky, lightly spiced dark plum and black cherry that's unfussy in its approach. Mouthcoating, it'll please a wide range of palates and meals.
Savory and structured, it has a supple layering of allspice that dances on the palate, with floral violet tones. Black cherry and earth make up the soul of this wine; it's both classy and hearty.
Heaps of earthy compost provide seductive intrigue to the opening of this wine. It continues satisfactorily on the palate, a piquant expression of black cherry, black tea and lingering acidity wrapped in a medium, softly layered body.
This is an earthy, minty, tart and taut wine, worthy of its appellation. It offers light-bodied notions of black tea, cranberry and rhubarb.
Smoky oak and campfire scents provide an earthy entry into this densely tannic wine. Upfront in its youthful power, black fruit and assertive oak flavors muddle its varietal character.
This full-bodied and robust wine is marked by dense tannins and heavy-handed oak, suppressing its ripe, bold strawberry and rhubarb flavors. The acidity is moderate and as of yet not fully integrated.
This wine sings in the glass, offering substantial aromas and flavors of charcuterie, dried herb and orange creamsicle, conjuring up visions of picnics in a glass. It will do well in such settings, but is also a worthy addition to the table, balanced and structured to pair memorably with a wide range of foods.
This is a memorably refreshing and reasonably complex effort, a crisp, delicious mix of tangerine, grapefruit and fresh strawberry made by the saignée method. Meaty, with texture, it's round, balanced and dry. Stock up.
This coastal, cool-climate estate wine is fresh and fruity, with plush tannins that feel velvety on the tongue. Cranberry, pomegranate and orange flavors provide complexity, complemented by black tea and forest floor notes.
Soft and earthy, this wine's herbal, funky nature suggests Carneros as much as Sonoma Coast, with black tea and crunchy dried cranberry lurking on the back of the palate. Medium in weight, it eases into a mellow finish.
Lightly textured and velvety in feel, Judson Hale's Yorkville Highlands Pinot Noir has a bigger fruit expression than many of its brethren from cooler parts of the nearby Anderson Valley, with ripe red fruit front and center and a big, slightly woody finish.
This wine opens with potential that is realized as it develops in the glass. It starts powerfully grippy and closed, then earthy loam and dried herb emerge aromatically before bites of black cherry and pomegranate tease the palate.
Juicy black cherry and strawberry flirt with this vineyard-designate's sultry and dense earthiness, combining two sides of the equation with a deft hand. Tea, sage and robust tannins give it depth and breadth across the palate, as tingling acidity keeps it fresh.
Generous on the palate, this wine from the famous site is ripe with wild strawberry and pomegranate fruit and accented with the distinct spiciness of cardamom. It displays its youth through assertive tannins and oak-derived scents, layering the thick finish with cinnamon bark.
This is an intense expression of cola and cinnamon stick, provocatively spicy on the tongue. Boldly ripe and full bodied, it unpacks layers upon layers of baked cherry, blueberry pie and orange flavor, wrapped within a velvety lush texture that's lifted by underlying acidity.
This is from a great vineyard near the Wohler Bridge in Forestville, and the fruit is well-represented in this bottle. Boldly layered, and richly designed, it's fragrantly floral with cherry blossoms. Those scents are paired with contiguous flavors of raspberry and cherry. Within a framework of upfront but integrated tannin and oak, it finds balance on the earthy finish.
Cranberry, rhubarb and allspice combine effortlessly in this well-made, memorable red. Silky on the palate, it shows a refinement of character and robust grasp of dark spicy notes that betray a baked, brooding quality of balanced richness. On the finish is a refreshing seasoning of orange zest.
Reduced and dominated by tannin and oak, this large production offering is earthy and spicy, with full-bodied texture and weight. It finishes slightly green.
Earthy and stemmy, the famed Bacigalupi is the source of grapes, a Wente field selection clone. Lush and soft, the flavors are faint strawberry and tart cherry, a touch of brown sugar and vanilla darting through the midpalate and into the oak-tinged finish.
Black pepper and orange rind complement one another aromatically before riding a medium-bodied layering of soft, seductive texture and acidity, additionally highlighted in rhubarb and black tea. As the wine builds complexity in the glass, it shows a minerality marked by earthy mint on the finish.
This satisfyingly full-bodied, dense wine offers a wealth of baked strawberry complemented by a fistful of clove, cinnamon and Asian five-spice. The tannins are firm and supported by moderate acidity, while strong elements of forest floor and sautéed mushroom add to the savory nature of it all.
Full and roundly lush, this is a big, bold wine from a specially selected site within an estate vineyard. It imparts smoked meat alongside rich, spiced plum, an undercurrent of rosemary and herbes de Provence whipping in between the fruit and generous tannin.
Spicy cardamom adds to the exotic perfume that opens this wine that is juicy in acidity and bright with crisp red cherry. Refreshing, it takes on more weight and substance as it glides effortlessly to the finish.
This wine offers baked flavors of red raspberry, black cherry and grapy plum. It finds its balance between juicy approachability and a swat of tannin that provides depth and body. It finishes ripe and with a suggestion of char.
This is a tangy, not entirely varietal wine that's dense in black tea and black fruit, with layers of tobacco and dried herb. Give it time in the glass to open.
From a Green Valley vineyard high on a ridge, this is an exceptional and softly layered wine, with cola, plum and black cherry notes. Offering length and breadth with moderate acidity and oak, it's dark and brooding in all the best ways.
From an estate vineyard planted high atop the Sebastopol Hills near Freestone, this wine impresses from start to finish. It shows unique white pepper and floral aromas, while a seamless texture supports its succulent cranberry and cherry flavors, a long, lingering accent of nutmeg spice rounding out the finish.
Seductive and velvety, this concentrated Pinot Noir is richly layered in raspberry cherry cordial, cardamom and cola flavors. Pine and allspice notes contribute a homey spiciness as as the fullness of the wine lingers into a long finish.
This wine defines luxurious texture, at once velvety, richly layered and bright. From one of the warmer sites in a cool climate zone, it complements its fruit concentration with deeper sarsaparilla, vanilla, tea and cardamom scents, the finish delightfully playful in orange peel accents.
This head-turning wine was made from vines planted in the 1970s and 1990s—a selection that shocks with its complex beauty. Pine forest and Christmas spice notes accent cranberry, rhubarb and tart citrus flavors, all seemingly infused with seductive smoke. At its juicy core is an earthy, mushroomy component.
Pretty, structured, layered and bright, Kite's Rest is a blend of all three block designates found on the 12-acre Black Kite Vineyard on the southern side of the Anderson Valley. The wine highlights attributes found in its sister wines.
Bright and high in acidity, this has a lively cherry flavor, plus a layering of earthy mushroom. It's silky from start to finish.
From an organically farmed block planted entirely to the Pommard clone, this wine offers strawberry, earth and black tea, diluted slightly by a tannic underbite that competes with the fruit. Softly structured, it grips further on the finish.
This is a thick, concentrated wine, full bodied in its toasty oak and bursts of cherry-vanilla. Oaky and soft, it possesses a funk of earthiness.
Young and tightly wound, this wine from the family's Olivet Lane Vineyard is reduced and generous in oak and spicy dark cherry, its aromas resplendent in rose petal. Layered and soft, it's big on complexity and plush textures, with a lengthy, caramel-and cola-laced finish.
A feral, somewhat sauvage aroma of pungent earth opens this wine, followed by notes of bay leaf and mint. Spicy and vibrant in red fruit, it is buoyed and balanced by acidity that keeps this full-bodied wine from ever seeming weighed down. This wine also offers good value.
This is a generous, tightly wound vineyard-designate that tastes more full-figured than it lists in terms of alcohol, jammy in dark plum and cardamom. It finishes with a ripe robustness of dark cherry fruit flavor and hint of earth.
This wine combines fruit from several notable vineyards, including Goldrock Ridge, Thale's Estate and Wildcat Mountain. Together, they drive a focused expression of smoky dark fruit and tart, moderate acidity. The fruit shows a depth of ripeness that's intense, with a finish of spicy black tea.
Winemaker Scot Covington trained with Merry Edwards and his prowess with Pinot shows through in this spicy, structured release, adorned in plum and dark cherry fruit. The finish is grippy and marked by a pronounced and inviting nuance of earthy forest floor.
Light and clear in color and texture, this wine is both slightly sour and sweet, swerving between savory leather and clove notes and a more ripe aspect of black cherry and strawberry.
Hugely brawny in dark blackberry, plum and cinnamon, this wine packs a punch despite its coastal influence. Black pepper and smoke provide the savory aspect, while cranberry and strawberry the softer, prettier side of the story. Drink now through 2020.
Spicy in plum and cherry, this is a full-figured effort with mildly smooth tannin and oak that fills the palate with dense force. On the finish is a mix of cola and cardamom.
Winery Block is four acres situated around the producer's winemaking facility, a small band of sandy soil. The resulting wine is tart in cherry and pomegranate, with tight acidity and plenty of freshness on the palate. Highlights of citrus and cola spice interweave effortlessly within.
This vineyard-designate opens in bombastic amounts of Asian spice and wild strawberry, making for a whirlwind of flavor and acidity on the palate. Black tea and rose garden dance around highlights of orange and cranberry, the wine tart in mineralogy, as well as full of length and density.
A complex wine that takes time to unveil itself, this offers muted dark cherry and exotic cardamom spice, light and layered through the midpalate before revealing a taste of toasty oak on the finish.
There's a surprising element of power to this Pinot Noir. Intense in dark cherry cola, clove and nutmeg, it offers a pronounced finish of wintery cardamom and caramel. The body is medium weight and the tannins smooth and silky.
Tense and full-bodied, Summit is from all Calera clone vines that deliver seductive elegance and earthiness. Cranberry and red currant follow aromatics of herb, dark cherry and classic Russian River cola spice. All the flavors develop further in the glass.
This is an old-world-style Pinot Noir that many a Francophile will love. Adorned in spice, earth and herbs, it is light in color and texture, with a deft approach to oak. Dark cherry fruit abounds around a silky, sublime mouthfeel.
An estate-grown Pinot Noir from the wilds of Freestone, this wine delivers in high acidity and perfumed aromatics that are highlighted by violet and sandalwood. The taste leans towards tart cherry and strawberry. Medium in weight, it's a structured wine, with just the right amount of heft and oak on the finish.
From a newer planting of the Durell Vineyard called the Ranch House Block, this Pinot is rocking in deep, delicious baked strawberry and raspberry fruit, fruity, lush and spicy yet balanced and tempting. The texture is satisfyingly velvety and complete.
Copper peach and orange in color, this light, dry wine is soft and refreshing. Flavors of grapefruit, tangerine and cherry don't overwhelm on the palate. It finishes crisp and ready for another sip.
Earthy cranberry, black tea and spicy clove deliver a combination of savory and herb, the tannins of the wine soft and subtle. The finish is lean.
Minty sage and cedar dot the aromatic profile of this wine that is holding on to tannin and oak with a fierce stubbornness. Tart cherry, pomegranate and blueberry give it a fruity mélange, accented by subtle rose petal and violet.
Subtle and shy at first, exhibiting light aromas of rose petal, this wine unveils slowly to reveal complex elements of cinnamon, red and black cherry—a curious commingling that comes together nicely. From several vineyards, including Martinelli, it's medium bodied and lengthy, with plenty of earthiness to the finish.
Light, clear and crisp, this is a soft, silky wine from several vineyard sources within the appellation, robust and rustic on the finish. Along the way, it exudes exotic hits of dark cherry, cola and vanilla, finding balance among the fruit and lively acidity, providing body without too much heat.
Rich and thick, this is an opulent offering of dark cherry and Asian spice, the spice popping on the palate throughout the long finish. Full bodied, it nonetheless features crisp, balanced acidity and a taste of rosemary and lavender, the perfect companion to a butterflied lamb seasoned the same.
This is from one of the oldest Pinot Noir vineyards in the area, owned and farmed by Bob Pellegrini, and a place that has provided grapes Edwards since the 1980s. Spicy pine and cardamom greet the nose and palate, as silky smooth layers of rose and wild strawberry meet cardamon and vanilla. Medium-bodied, it remains complex and balanced as it develops additional nuance in the glass.
Eucalyptus, Bay laurel and other herbal aromas dominate the nose of this wine, making way for black tea and cola flavors. Full-bodied and robustly ripe with powerful tannin, it's ultimately earthy and complex.
This wine is explosively juicy in black cherry and pomegranate, finding a way to offer fruity tartness alongside an intensity of savory complexity. Big boned and concentrated, the layers of flavor are complemented by a luxuriously velvety texture.
Austere and elegant in its cool-climate, light-bodied way, this wine is dark and brooding nonetheless, offering a wild bramble of berry and rhubarb flavors. Firm in tannin and subtle in oak, it is dotted in black-tea and savory forest-floor edges.
Crisp red cherry and a taste of grenadine characterize this light, bright wine, with accents of orange and rhubarb. Fruity and straightforward in structure and body, it retains nicely interwoven acidity through the finish.
Brick in color, this single-vineyard wine is vibrant in acidity and a taste of fresh strawberry seasoned in earth, cola spice and forest. Balanced despite a full-bodied imprint, it's an impressive offering sure to please fans of a bigger style of the variety.
The label says California but these grapes are from Clarksburg, near Lodi and for Pinot Noir, leave a little to be desired. Mostly fruit, the wine's aromas and flavors are fairly simple and oaky. There's not much saying Pinot Noir specifically here.
Aromas and flavors of sandalwood and grenadine layer around this velvety, seductive wine. It offers black tea, truffle and forest floor, the body sinewy and complex. Savory in cinnamon and clove on the finish, it needs more time to open; decant or cellar through 2021.
Located in the wilds of Annapolis, the vineyard will be familiar to fans of extreme Sonoma Coast wines. This vintage will be the winery's last from the site, according to the winery. Earthy cinnamon bark surrounds refined tannins and complex layers of high-toned cherry and raspberry before evocative dried herbs hit the palate.
Big-boned and intense, it features oaky, thick, ripe dark cherry as the main standout, although it is nearly overwhelmed by earth and vanilla.
Tart cranberry, black tea and dark plum characterize this earthy, soft and supple wine, made from grapes grown in a block at the crest of a knoll. Firm tannins give it an edginess, an unexpected complement to its warmth and depth of cardamom spice and blackberry.
Light and smoothly textured, this beautifully crafted wine is earthy in wild strawberry preserves, mushroom and forest floor. With a tannic grip that subsides in the glass, it's built to age but entirely enjoyable now, showing power and concentration on the finish.
Made in tiny quantities, this wine opens with aromas of crisp, just-peeled orange before unveiling silky tannins and a bite of oak. Light in color, it builds up layers of dark cherry, sage and mushroomy earth as it develops, with a substantial kick of texture and weight on the finish.
Pungently earthy in red strawberry and cherry, this is a seductively textured wine from a fine vineyard, made in tiny amounts. Fresh-cut roses and black tea provide a savory element, balancing exuberant fruit and complex notes of cola.
This wine has thick, ripe fruit and texture, making it robust and intense. Forest floor, black tea and tobacco notes give it memorable savoriness.
Smoky barbecue aromas mask the bouquet of this wine, more akin to Zinfandel than Pinot Noir. Nondescript and somewhat diluted, it struggles to find varietal character.
This is a broad-shouldered, full-bodied wine that shows true varietal character in its mix of earthy, spicy strawberry and cherry notes.
This wine is bright and crisp in strawberry and red licorice flavors, with a depth of juicy plum that adds softness and velvety texture. Tawdry earth complements the exuberant fruit.
This is a big, meaty wine that wears its youthfulness on its sleeve, showing a touch of reduction and assertive oak. Beneath its wall of ripeness, black licorice, cherry and pomegranate characteristics are buoyed by a depth of thick tannin.
Floral lavender sets the mood on the entry into this wine, followed by soft layers of red cherry and herb. The big oak imprint in this wine gives it weight, concentration and a bittersweet tone, especially on the finish.
This lush wine offers true value, deeply flavored in strawberry and cherry. A tannic foundation supports the fruit beside black tea, clove and a twist of orange and cranberry, with a soft and smooth texture.
Smoky tar and oak meet baked huckleberry in this soft, textured and lengthy wine from this great family of grape growers. Moderate acidity allows for a ripe, full-bodied expression of the variety.
Forest floor and fresh-dug earth form a core around this wine's crisp, clear hit of red cherry. Buoyant acidity keeps it light and bright, with unfettered oak and tannin.
This Pinot, from Black Kite's highest elevation block right beneath a stand of redwood trees, is light and nuanced, earthy, buoyant with acidity and gorgeously textured, with an exotic thread of spice on the finish.
As good as their Redwoods' Edge but meatier, denser and exuding more spice, this Pinot has a nose of leather and dark blue and red fruit, sexy texture and a long-lingering finish. It'll delight on the dinner table with pork tenderloin or leg of lamb.
In 2012, Balletto had its Pinots undergo natural fermentations, with beguiling results. This vintage of Burnside Road, always a standout bottling, delivers stemmy, herbal, toasty aromas around a layering of warm strawberry fruit and gorgeous earthiness. Soft, silky and seductive, it lingers on the tongue, imprinting on the pleasure centers of the brain.
Reuling is humming its way toward continued greatness in working with its own coveted fruit, crafting a coming-together of earthy fruit and lush texture. This vintage is dark ruby in color, classic in complex forest floor and wild strawberry layered over flowery perfume and a streak of spice. The imprint of oak and girth is still evolving, and the structure is there to cellar from 2017–2021.
Light in ruby-red, see-through red color, it's spicy and alive, with a silky cherry pit aroma and undercurrent of herbal earthiness. Balanced and soft, it can accompany a slow-roasted pork tenderloin adorned in morel mushrooms or a classic BLT. Of course, it's also stellar on its own.
Velvety smooth and big-boned, this wine shows crisp red fruit wrapped in tart acidity and subtle oak. Bay laurel, spearmint and green tea add savory complexity.
From a great vineyard under the precise care of grower extraordinaire Ulises Valdez, this wine offers layers of spicy red cherry and berry fruit around lovely waves of soft, supple tannins. The finish continues the theme, balanced in acidity, a freshness of fruit and lingering cola spice.
Earthy, funky black tea and forest floor invite one in for further exploration of this block-specific offering that becomes lean and bright on the palate. Pomegranate dominates in terms of fruit, as spicy acidity elevates the experience.
Bay leaf and eucalyptus figure prominently on the nose and palate of this wine, making for an intensely earthy, herbal experience, peppered by forest-floor notes.
Dark fruit shows on the palate in this exotically spiced and floral blend from several vineyards, including Sangiacomo Roberts Road. Soft and medium in weight, it has high-toned acidity underneath the brooding spice and forest floor.
This likable wine has juicy and bright core, a mix of spicy cola-cherry and forest floor nested in firm, integrated tannins that works seamlessly on the palate. A full-bodied wine, it has power and grace.
The winery's larger production offering, this is made from a handful of vineyards, including many used in vineyard-designates. Blending prowess shows in this wine that explodes in plum and clove. Tight, bright acid buoys flavors of strawberry, cranberry and orange, with a twisted funk of earth on the finish.
A new offering from the West Burgundy Wine Group within Jackson Family Wines, this wine hails from the wilds of Annapolis, an extreme outpost of the Sonoma Coast. Spicy cardamom marks the entry, along with plum, dark cherry, cedar and even a hint of grapefruit, the minerality chiseled and clean. Firm tannins mark a lengthy, full-bodied finish.
Sourced from the Sangiacomo and Gap's Crown vineyards within the Petaluma Gap area of the appellation, this is a tight, tangy wine. Full of citrus, cranberry and dried herb, it finishes savory in sage and forest floor accents. The acidity is subtle and the tannins integrated, making for a well-balanced wine.
Medium in build and high in minerality, this fruity, dark-cherry wine is tethered by sizable oak and tannin. It finds its balance midway through, before offering a substantial finish.
Floral and pretty on the nose, this coastal Pinot offers soft layers of wild strawberry and tangy acidity while pushing the boundaries of lower ripeness. Lean, it finishes with a suggestion of earthy mushroom and savory tea.
Dark purple in color, this is a fully realized Pinot Noir, aged longer in bottle before release, to great effect. Spicy and earthy, it offers a density that's not overwhelming but gives the wine an ideal combination of style and substance, complex in cherry and vanilla.
Soft red fruit adorns this light-bodied take on the variety. From the heart of the appellation, it has moderate acidity and a flavor profile characterized by rose petal, orange and cherry.
This bold, round and supple wine manages to remain bright and light, offering supple streaks of cranberry and cherry that take on some of the appellation's inviting cola spice. Brick tar in color, it gets better in the glass and offers good value.
There's a simplicity to this medium-bodied wine, which is high in acidity and basic in its fruit. Ripe black cherry and dried herb are along for the ride, atop leather and cola. A small percentage of Dry Creek Valley Petite Sirah is blended in.
Vibrant acidity envelops lively yet dark, brooding baked plum and cherry notes in this smoothly made, velvety-textured wine from estate vineyards. It excites as much on the palate as on the nose, transitioning smoothly into the medium-length finish.
This medium-bodied, small-production red was given a light touch of oak, only 25% of it new and French, allowing the other characteristics to speak louder than the wood. Compact tannins support a juicy, youthfully grippy frame of pomegranate and orange that opens further in the glass.
Red raspberry and cherry offer a depth of fruit flavor in this full-bodied, robust wine that's buoyed by moderate acidity. The cherry is seasoned in baking spice and black tea, as accents of toasted oak lean into rich vanilla.
This wine is tannic and slightly carbonic on the palate, offering a fresh, spritzy taste. Stemmy, it shows a distinct presence of forest floor, black tea and cranberry flavor.
Dark in color, this wine was fermented in neutral barrels and then aged in stainless steel, preserving its freshness and acidity. Cranberry, strawberry and watermelon define the flavor profile amidst a dry backbone.
A rich, earthy Pinot bright in red and blue fruit and an herbal note in the distance, Londer's estate-grown Pinot is a marriage of site, style and vintage. Lightly textured with soft edges and complexity to spare, it should pair well with bacon and goat cheese quiche.
A straightforward Pinot Noir from Mendocino's inland Potter Valley, the wine is dominated by a layer of spearmint that overcomes the more nuanced flavors of cherry and raspberry.
This wine is spicy in forest floor and sage. Strawberry hull and cranberry notes mark the light-bodied palate, with a tightly-woven tapestry of subtle tannin.
Generous in spicy clove and dark cherry fruit, a mark of its Middle Reach Russian River Valley clime, this wine is full of life and minerality. It offers good value for Russian River Valley, and the finish boasts a zesty pepper accent.
Estate grown and bottled, this Pinot comes from a cool, organic vineyard planted to several different clones. Sultry and spicy in dark cherry and berry fruit, the spice is all clove with a touch of orange zest, completely pleasurable and smooth drinking.
An ethereal Pinot from high atop Mendocino Ridge, sourced from just one block of the Signal Ridge Vineyard, this wine is a gorgeous glass of strawberry and cherry compote, with a pungency of pomegranate. Soft, well-integrated and zinging with acidity, this unfined and unfiltered Pinot is well worth seeking out.
Brick red in color, this vineyard-designated Pinot offers aromas of rose geranium before delving into soft, earthy notes laced in strawberry and oak. The wine is not overly ripe nor tannic, and finishes with a medium length.
A pretty Pinot, earthy and complex, that's perfumed with strawberry jam, violets and candied orange. It's delicate in personality, yet retains plenty of heft and backbone on the palate. Aromatically memorable, pair it with spiced Moroccan lamb in cardamom and cinnamon spices.
Named for the soil layers important to wine's terroir, this Pinot is sourced from a variety of sites and multiple clones, providing a complexity of wild strawberry, high acidity and an herbaceous, oaky backdrop. A teasing kiss of toffee and chocolate on the finish is deliciously intriguing.
Feral and wild, Spring Hill Vineyard lies in the Petaluma Gap where it is regularly enveloped in fog and cooling coastal winds. The result here is a soft, slightly stemmy, earthy wine with balanced layers of cherry, raspberry and vanilla.
Earthy and light in color, this shows well for the appellation, displaying elegant and ethereal tendencies that veer into the rustic. Dark cherry is the high note on the fruit component, seasoned by cinnamon and clove.
Larger than life in terms of oak and tannin on the entry, this wine is elusive in fruit. Medium-bodied, it feels weighty and sharp-shouldered, while being clearly well-made and expressive of its appellation and variety. A cherry-vanilla note rings on the finish.
Made for Fleming's Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar, this bottling is the winery's first release from this vineyard, set near the town of Petaluma. The barrel imprint is significant, rounded out by plum, earthy mushroom, fennel and ripe strawberry. Brooding, this wine offers a dark and dense underbelly of bittersweet chocolate.
Oaky and full bodied, this conveys a strong impression of big berry fruit. Spice and herbal components are underplayed, letting the fruit come forth in all its glory. This is an attractive and ready-to-drink wine.
This is a smooth, easygoing wine, straightforward in red and black cherry, full bodied in style and veering on concentrated. It lacks the nuance of many others in its category, but delivers full flavor.
A testament to coolness—cool place, cool year—this Marin County Pinot is earthy, round and tight, suggesting it could use a little more time to develop. Cranberry and spice rule the roost and the wine's lightness of being would pair well with fresh-caught salmon not looking to be overwhelmed.
From Vine Hill Vineyard, this wine is juicy in raspberry and vanilla, made in a fuller-bodied style with pronounced tannins on the finish. Let it open to express itself fully.
This light, lean beauty is a blend of three vineyards in the appellation, including two that are vineyard-designated by the producer in other wines. It highlights wild strawberry, blueberry and forest floor, all fresh, bright and velvety on the palate. The finish offers a taste of oak.
This wine shows its youth in its thick, concentrated fruit and viscous and dry tannins. Dark cherry and tobacco interweave themselves across a broad, full-bodied palate that's flavorful and cola-defined.
This is a softly layered wine with just the right amount of tension to give credence to a lifted minerality, accented by well-crafted clove and baked strawberry. The finish is spicy in more clove and nutmeg.
Juicy and oaky, this ripe, fleshy wine dances in black fruit and tea. Medium in weight and length, it finishes in a burst of toasted vanilla.
This is an impressively priced and made new wine, offering a compelling mix of tart cherry and sublime earth around streaks of exotic cardamom. Pretty and inviting, it's tight in crisp cranberry and raspberry, finishing swiftly and with purpose.
From a storied site, this wine opens in aromas of syrupy kirsch and baking spices, inviting and full bodied, with a marked intensity. On the palate it delves into richer notes of wild strawberry, cinnamon and rose petal, along with a strong reminder of pine and forest floor. It remains soft through the finish.
Aromas of rose petals and fresh-hoed earth come to the fore as this wine opens, followed by fine-grained, intense tannins and savory wooded notes. Black pepper, red cherry, sea salt and dried herb pop at different times. It's still tight, so let this wine open in the glass or decant; better yet, cellar through 2023.
It's hard not to jump up and down about the outstanding value represented here, a wine made from Dutton Ranch fruit that's juicy and generous in baked strawberry, earth and rose petals. A grippy structure provides weight around nuanced, spicy cherry-pie flavor and plenty of body to satisfy.
Damp earth and forest floor mark this wine, a blend of various clones, the majority of which are Pommard. Red raspberry and cherry compete for attention aromatically and in taste, followed by a spiciness of Christmas clove.
A ripe, softly round and full-bodied wine, this features robust characteristics of berry pie, vanilla and cola spice, showing only moderate acidity.
Longbow is a blend of several vineyard sites otherwise vineyard-designated by the producer, a chance to showcase winemaker Matt Courtney's way with fruit. In his first vintage at Arista, he excels in crafting a wine exuberant in high-toned black cherry and structured, silky tannin, lengthy and fresh in aromas of rose petal and cinnamon.
This wine offers concentration in spades, a toasty rich bevy of heavy, black fruit flavors that sit with purpose on the tongue. From a Green Valley-area vineyard the grapes hung long until profound ripeness, resulting in this big boy wine.
Pine needles, rhubarb and strawberry wrap around a depth of fresh earth and rose petals in this medium-bodied and well-integrated wine. As it reveals fully developed layers of fruit and nuanced texture, it sizzles in white pepper, a twist of intrigue that differentiates this wine.
Light and earthy, this wine's secret weapon is its sizzling tease of white pepper that explodes quietly on the palate as it develops. Further spiced in forest and pine, it dances along an elegant focus of integrated power and tannin to reveal elements of cranberry, pomegranate and wild strawberry.
With a small percentage of whole-cluster fermentation, this tight, cranberry-infused Pinot offers bright layers of cherry and citrus that are savory and well-adjusted in acidity. Softly textured it's a good one to enjoy with pork tenderloin adorned in dried cherries.
The first Pinot Noir release from this producer, this is a velvety-smooth, exotic and charming wine, light on the palate despite a concentration of ripe, rich fruit. Kirsch, cherry, raspberry and cinnamon combine to make the wine invitingly lush and plush.
From one of the winery's two estate vineyards, Harper's is dense and oaky, with bittersweet chocolate, dark cherry and black tea twisted around a layer of thick, dense tannins. Dried herbs and a subtle squeeze of tangerine provide savory and exotic character, while the finish is velvety and sublime.
Named for the producer's farmhouse and its surrounding vineyard, this offers rich cherry cordial and weedy sage notes—a seamless mix of fruit and earth. Sage, cardamom and spicy white pepper flavors give it intrigue and complexity, wrapped in a thick, velvety texture.
This is a young, wild and dense wine, intense in oak and strong-willed red cherry and strawberry fruit. Full-bodied and still smoothing out its rough edges, the big tannin structure should allow a length of aging through 2020.
Light in color, this wine comes from a seven-acre spot in Freestone. It opens with a stemmy earthiness, then wild strawberry and mint commingle in a velvety, smooth and sublime package of light red cherry and pomegranate that bristles with acidity through the spicy finish.
Generous on the palate, this wine from the famous site is ripe with wild strawberry and pomegranate fruit and accented with the distinct spiciness of cardamom. It displays its youth through assertive tannins and oak-derived scents, layering the thick finish with cinnamon bark.
Boasting cherry-vanilla cola and ripe fruit notes, this is a young, fresh wine that shows hints of savory tones on the palate. Drink now.
This simple, lighter take on the variety belies its ripe fruit, the weight of the wine taking on girth as it goes. Black cherry, spicy cinnamon and toasted oak intermingle on the palate, before a medium-length finish.
Rustic compost, wild strawberry and cola spice highlight this medium-bodied, velvety textured wine, buoyed by a linear streak of lively acidity. Leather and smoke accentuate the finish.
From the outer reaches of Annapolis, where the ocean likes to assert itself, this wine is cloudy and stemmy, with a lively, carbonic-like freshness. Roses and citrus play off each other in complex, complicated ways, allowing the firm, present tannins to relax. Black tea and anise complete the picture.
This light-bodied, surprisingly affordable wine surprises in its lightness of color and texture, its character driven by high-strung elements of pomegranate and tangerine. On the more savory side, expect nuances of earthy mint, bay leaf and white pepper.
This comes from a dry-farmed site, all the better to coax out its stony minerality and delicate aromas of rose garden an d geranium. Fully expressive, it's voluptuous and lushly balanced, offering wild strawberry and tons of forest floor.
This wine is marked by a woody, herbal undertone that evolves into cardamom and clove. Fruitier, full-bodied waves of cherry, wild strawberry and vanilla play out on the boisterous, boldly built palate.
Earthy, tart cherry and strawberry paint a pretty picture in this aromatic, inviting wine, a bold, fruity offering accented by luscious streaks of herb. Well-integrated and composed, dustings of cocoa and cola spice build steam on the finish, the overall package just lightly oaked.
This is a robust, brawny wine, exuberant in wild strawberry and earthy black pepper and black tea. Leathery layers of mushroom and toasted oak combine for a full-bodied experience that speaks well of the appellation. A concentrated version of one clone of the grape from a single vineyard in a stellar vintage.
Earthy in a way that's almost savage, this wine's bouquet discloses layers of cooked mushroom and forest floor, the texture velvety smooth. The grapes hail from the Green Valley appellation within the larger Russian River Valley, with minerality that's crisp and buoyant. The finish shows some of the oak.
From the Laguna Ridge neighborhood of the larger appellation, this is a subtle, fuller-bodied wine that's silky and refined in dark cherry, anise and rich earth. Pomegranate and cassis play in the background, the flavors nuanced and complex, with a tangy, citrus-tinged finish.
An earthy, spicy and lean wine, veering on austere, this is elegant and softly layered. Wild strawberry, mushroom and forest combine with a subtle suggestion of black tea and cinnamon to form a delicious experience that's long-lasting on the palate.
Swirl this wine vigorously to get it to evolve quickly in the glass and be rewarded by pretty blueberry aromas and flavors, an interesting example of a Santa Barbara winery playing with Anderson Valley fruit (Burt Williams' no less).
Jammy, baked black cherry gives this wine a richness of flavor and texture, while cola and clove stand idly by in support. Lively acidity preserves a freshness on the palate.
This is a thickly concentrated and powerfully full-bodied wine, spicy in clove and cinnamon as well as a lingering note of cola. The fruit leans into blackberry and black cherry, with a pronounced weedy, herbal undertone.
There's a fresh, juicy sense of dark cherry and cranberry in this medium-bodied wine. A lurking forested, mushroomy earthiness hovers around it as well, the finish awash in rich, dark toasty oak accented by notes of chocolate.
Tingling in acidity, this substantially juicy, full-bodied rosé is made from ripe fruit that leans toward flavors of strawberries and Russian River Valley Pinot's classic tell-tale of cherries. The aromas are floral; think Lady Day gardenia.
From a tiny, organically farmed vineyard outside of Occidental, this wine is dense in earth, with a brambly nose of wild cherry and cranberry. Salty and herbal, it retains plenty of acidity on the light-bodied palate, offering a mix of cinnamon and tangerine on the finish.
This is a tank-fermented wine from the King's Ridge Vineyard overlooking the Pacific Ocean. A big, intense expression of the variety, it's burly in black fruit and proffers a taste of coconut macaroon.
This is a dark, tannic Pinot Noir from a big vintage, hefty in dark berry fruit and a taste of leather. Affordable and widely distributed, it's a good choice for midweek meals.
This is the first release of this new vineyard site for the producer, from a cool property planted by the producer with the help of local grower Jim Pratt, who also supplies Pinot Noir under the Pratt Vineyard name. Still working things out, the wine is earthy and intense, a tightly wound expression of tart cherry and pomegranate, with layers of intriguing clove and dried herbs.
From a longstanding source of primo grapes, this Olivet Lane Pinot sings in floral rose and violet while offering damp earth, subtle hints of black raspberry and striking acidity. With well-integrated oak and softly layered tannins, it's on the lighter side of the producer's line-up of wines, building up steam as it goes.
Intensely colored, this wine is from a replanted estate block just coming into its own. The texture is soft and silky, yet austere. It dances in earthy blueberry and spicy cedar notes, finishing in a powerful pronouncement of oak.
Wild strawberry, cardamom and clove vie for attention around boysenberry and blueberry ripeness. Intense oak dominates at first, before bowing down to the layers of soft violet and rose. Let this wine open or cellar it away until 2019.
A pretty bouquet of wild strawberry invites one into this wine that's faint pink in color and pleasantly awash in citrus flavor and aroma. Mellow and long-lasting on the finish, it's refreshingly crisp in acidity and light in alcohol.
This wine has a richness that borders on candied, a celebration of ripe raspberry and cherry with medium weight and body around strong streaks of tannin.
A robust, full-bodied expression of earth and forest mark this well-made wine, a touch of spearmint surrounding red and black cherry.
There's a lifeless, generic quality to this wine that steals the variety's more common sense of joy and earthy red fruit, but it suffices as general red wine.
Made at a somewhat approachable price point, this blend of coastal vineyard sites holds back on fruit and texture. It provides a tightly closed and still youthful touch of savory herb and tea, finishing lean.
Somewhat muted, this estate-grown wine is most exuberant in pine and dusty cherry. Full bodied and robust on the palate, it retains a grip of tannin from start to finish.
Light, clear and unfiltered, this vineyard-designate has elements of Christmas tree pine, spearmint and forest floor. Crisp on the palate and somewhat austere, it finishes clean and quick.
Based in Carmel, this producer ventures north to Napa and Sonoma for grapes. It crafts this earthy, ethereal wine from Russian River fruit and donates part of its sales proceeds to a handful of charities. Mushroom, licorice, tea and cherry are all well-represented, wrapped in a conservative idling of oak.
This wine was sourced from three vineyards, including Gap's Crown atop what may one day be officially known as the Petaluma Gap, and the estate property known as Last Stop Ranch. It offers a mix of smoky charcuterie alongside tart cherry and cranberry, a balance of savory and sweet. Lightly textured and bodied, it finishes in piquant cinnamon spice and ginger.
This blends fruit from DeVoto in the Sebastopol Hills with grapes from Terra de Promissio, Umino and Alder Springs vineyards. It's soft and thick, with rich, ripe flavors of cranberry, pomegranate and cherry, a sizzling sense of cola spice underlying it all.
Presenting at first as somewhat reduced, this wine is tart and feral, with a muskiness reminiscent of mushroom and forest floor. Its intensely voluptuous body is concentrated in black cherry, cola and cardamom, with a richness and roundness on the palate and finish.
Decadent cherry, vanilla and baked plum meet a mouthful of cinnamon in this generously full-bodied and weighty wine. Earthy undertones of forest floor and shaved truffle add complexity and savory components that complement well.
This wine speaks to cool-climate with a crispness of rhubarb and strawberry deftly held together by beguiling cinnamon, clove and a bouquet of rose petals. Spicy in acidity, it evolves in the glass to become velvety and seductive in texture, ending in a lingering warmth and depth.
Made only in exceptional vintages, and in minuscule amounts at that, this estate-grown concoction is gorgeous, big, bold and sizable in terms of fruit and oak, with a bite of leathery tannin midway through the full body that softens on the finish. Complicated and concentrated, it also offers a seizure of minerality and lushness that's divine. Drink now through 2022.
From a vineyard within the Santa Rosa Plains, this wine opens in pretty, floral aromas of violet and gentle rose. Seductive, it follows with bursts of blood orange and wild strawberry that remain faint and delicate on the palate, light and clear in color, and elegant in intensity. Still, there's enough backbone to the wine to keep it fresh and alive through the long finish.
From a trio of vineyards the winery otherwise vineyard-designates, including Spring Hill, Saltonstall and Nobles, this Pinot is rustic in truffled earth and dried herb, the earthiness of the Pommard clone grapes out in full force.
Thinly textured and light red in color, this Pinot is lean and very much in display of rustic, earthy aromas and flavors.
Perfumed in rose, this wine devolves into a tightly tannic expression of black tea and bittersweet dried cranberry, resisting the urge to come together in a more seamless way.
Brambly red cherry and strawberry are featured among shy layers of oak, providing the wine with an interesting duality of power and silkiness on the palate. A complex streak of minerality makes this intriguingly seductive and exotic, with layers of flavor unfolding with each sip.
Former longtime Edmeades winemaker Van Williamson is offering the world his take on cool-climate Mendocino Pinot Noir with this and his Cerise Vineyard bottlings. This one is light in color but weighty on the palate with rich, spicy notes of raspberry-vanilla wafers and earth.
Meaty and substantial on the palate, this wine comes from several vineyard sites and was fermented in stainless steel tanks. It has a juicy note of sweet, ripe red fruit that's inviting.
Ripe cherry-vanilla and robust oak combine for a full-bodied, generous style of Pinot, from a prime spot in Carneros close to the town of Napa. Despite the wine's burly size, its texture is silky, and the finish an echo of the oak and vanilla.
The price-quality ratio is inviting for this wine, a light, lifted expression of cranberry and herb. The grapes were sourced from both the Russian River Valley and Sonoma Coast appellations, about half of each, before aging less than a year in managed oak, 30% of it new. The wine finishes in swirls of vanilla-cola.
Rich without being heavy, this wine offers bright cherry and strawberry, followed by pretty floral components and just a tiny dose of cinnamon. Balanced and not overdone in oak, it's enjoyable and ready for the table.
Light and delicate, this wine also offers a lushness to the texture, finding a balance between the two spectrums. Cranberry and strawberry dot a landscape of earthy tobacco and cola-laced oak, finishing with a bold taste of dark chocolate.
Moderately bodied and spiced, this is a straightforward expression of the variety, a mix of pomegranate, red cherry and cassis, that has a deceptive richness on the finish, wrapped in oak.
Rich and concentrated, this big, brawny bruiser tastes as advertised: layered with baked strawberry and cherry pie flavor and ripeness. Earthy soy, anise and cinnamon keep those elements in check, as does the wine's velvety texture.
Approachable in its youthful vigor and wealth of fruit, this medium-bodied coastal wine offers a complement of spicy black licorice, cranberry and strawberry, finishing lean and focused.
Given only 25% new oak, this is a very light, thin and foresty version of the variety, combining funky earth and savory cardamom-type spice with bright, tart red fruit that veers more pomegranate than cherry.
A heavy and dark version of the variety, this bottling delivers tension and bite from its intense oak. Ripe black cherry and darker blackberry and plum mark the fruit components, laced in a leathery taste of tobacco and tomato leaf.
A chef's array of mint, sage and dill accent this small-production wine's savory and smoothly integrated palate. It maintains the integrity of the intensely concentrated vintage. Forest floor, black cherry and black tea flavors contribute additional character.
Full-bodied and expressively juicy, this is an enjoyable wine right now, rich, earthy and balanced between its notions of red cherry and blackberry fruit and exotic cardamom spice. Harmonious and layered, it finishes with aplomb.
This wine holds an allowable amount of Anderson Valley fruit, in addition to grapes from Sonoma Coast, including many of the winery's vineyard designates. Rose petals and a helping of clove mark the entry, followed by savory elements of black tea, tart cherry, blueberry and black pepper on the palate. These continue with subtle force through the finish.
Ripe and full-bodied, this is a bright and velvety wine, driven aromatically by lush cherry, cola and vanilla. Textured and fleshy, it's a strong statement for the vintage and vineyard. Deliciously drinkable now, it should also do well in the cellar, through 2020.
This is a chewy, generous and expansive vineyard-designated wine, dense and fulsome in savory cranberry, cardamom and streaks of black tea. Full bodied, its layers of texture are soft and velvety, and the finish lengthy in spice.
Plump tannins and ripe black cherry mark this wine, the structure and savory components also standing out. The finish carries a suggestion of cinnamon spice.
This is a dry, light and easy going wine, made entirely from Pinot Noir. The palate is refreshing in its firm grasp of cherry and raspberry flavors.
Young and vibrant, this is the winery's smaller production from a special selection of barrels. A soft, burly expression of strawberry, raspberry and ripe boysenberry, it is accentuated by generous portions of toasty oak and baking spices, a faint hint of dried herb on the finish.
This is a savory wine, alive in spicy black fruit. The acidity prickles the palate before waves of vibrant strawberry, raspberry and black cherry flavors follow, supported by medium-bodied layers of soft tannin and a finish of herb.
Marked by oak and thick, dark blue fruit, this wine also conveys a buoyant softness and prettiness. The study in yin and yang characteristics starts with a bang and develops complexity in the glass.
What stands out most in this wine is its floral flirtation, the ability to draw in the nose effortlessly and seductively. From there, it offers cherry-berry, cola and peppery clove in equal measure, the acidity in check and spicy on the tongue.
This is made from a cool vineyard site, low in elevation and often covered in fog. The wine is sultry and velvety, with a smoky edge wrapped in candied cherry and cinnamon. It's overdelivers in terms of price as well.
A bright, lovely layering of cherry and strawberry strikes first, before a jolt of rose perfume finds its complement in an earthy lilt of salt and forest. Sandalwood enhances the intrigue and complexity of this medium-bodied wine.
A full-bodied, heady and velvety wine, this discloses a strong grip on the palate, surrounded by notes of allspice and earth. A slight tartness of spice and smoke complement rich tones of cherry and wild strawberry, finishing robustly. Drink now through 2020.
A light, refreshing and yet complex combination of fresh-cut grapefruit and watermelon, a suggestion of apricot and cranberry in the wings, this wine is stellar in every way. Fermented in both stainless steel and neutral oak it provides a textured acidity that gives it balance and just enough weight, finishing with a taste of wet stone.
This is a nice estate offering from the producer, a celebration of baked cherry pie that's soft and velvety while being full-bodied in style. Fruity and oaky in equal measure, it was aged for almost two years in 35% new French oak, and has a distinct touch of toasted oak on the finish.
This wine is both refined and robust, from a three-acre block replanted in 2007. It is aged in older French barrels, with the fruit sultry in cherry and black tea, the tension of the acidity hard to shake which contributes to its overall softness and complex intensity.
Full bodied and richly layered, this wine opens aromatically with delicate rose petal, cranberry and rhubarb, which all continue on the palate. Tart and herbal, this holds additional earthiness at its core, defined by notes of forest floor and black tea.
This is a pretty great deal for a wine of this quality, made by consulting winemaker Shane Finley. Mellowed in flavor and oak, it takes time to open in the glass, but does, imparting forest floor, cardamom and a bite of bittersweet cranberry-raspberry within a medium-bodied, smooth texture.
An earthiness of forest floor wraps around a medley of bright berry and cherry in this wine that is also nicely balanced in acidity. Smooth on the palate, it takes on stronger currents of tannin and leathery oak on the finish.
A selection of barrels from the same estate vineyard, this unctuous, brawny wine remains grippy on the palate, needing time in cellar, through 2020. Time should tame the tannins and lure in the black cherry and licorice, wrapped in luxurious swathes of blackberry and dried herb.
High-toned strawberry and cherry open this medium-bodied wine that takes on heavier, darker overtones of dried herb, nutmeg and black tea as it goes. From a meticulously farmed vineyard also known for Chardonnay, it conveys a stamp of tobacco on the oak that invites thoughts of leather chairs and cigars.
Lightly colored and tightly wound, this wine offers a bouquet of rose petals around a core of cherry and cranberry with buoyant acidity. A low oak profile helps boost the fruit-forwardness and approachability of the wine, with just a tiny bite of tannin on the finish.
Strawberry jam dances around high-strung cranberry, pomegranate and rhubarb, combining for a tantalizing experience of earthy dried herb and cardamom. Light bodied but never thin, it finishes with a flourish of succulent orange peel.
A foundation of truffled earth and forest floor give this a rustic edge, complemented by savory herb and black tea. Weighty, it shows its backbone of oak aging well, finishing abruptly in cranberry and dark cherry.
This is a robustly reduced, tightly wound and still quite youthful wine, showing both the vintage and the appellation in warmer years, with an intensity of black tea, tar and black cherry. Full bodied, it's powerfully weighted and structured.
This wine initially presents itself as lighter in body than it actually is, a tease from the cool-climate aromas of cucumber, dill and cranberry tea. The oak is toasty with a whiff of smoke, the acidity somewhat subdued. An appealing funk of earth gives it varietal distinction.
Tingly acidity complements the lush, full-bodied concentration of this estate-grown beauty. It's both soft and sensual in tone. Pine, orange peel and pomegranate notes play against the richness and add freshness to the chewy tannin. Best enjoyed 2024 through 2034.
Meant to impart the meaning of the “true” Sonoma Coast, this bottling hails from Campbell Ranch near Annapolis. It impresses with its lush complexity: cherry grenadine and forest floor scents, with cardamom spice and a hint of orange peel. It's full-bodied and densely powerful.
Planted in 2006 to heirloom clones, most of them Pommard, this is a concentrated, tannic wine that needs time in bottle to develop. For now, expect rose and raspberry, with a depth of black cherry compote—flavors that are immediately inviting and richly layered. Yet, it will tell more of its story down the road. Allow it to open now or cellar through 2029.
Named for Edwards' first grandchild born in this vintage year, this wine is made from fruit sourced from Meredith Estate Vineyard. Velvety smooth and perfumed, it offers piquant pepper and cardamom scents, along with intense rhubarb compote and raspberry flavors. It shows both purpose and quiet power, wrapped in violet and rose.
From a sloped vineyard in Green Valley, this impressive wine is spicy in cardamom with plenty of forest floor character, a tanginess dominant on the full-bodied palate. Orange zest and cranberry accent fine-tuned tannin and subtle oak.
Bold, juicy dark cherry and cola drift along a bed of rose petals. Ripe and full bodied, this wine manages to be soft and spicy on the midpalate, then delivers a lengthy, complex finish that's girded in structured tannin.
Tannic waves of tartness add to a complicated, slightly carbonic edginess in this wine, accentuated by ripe black fruit that almost seems baked. Spicy acidity and a hit of forest floor make it savory and substantially rewarding.
Perfumed and silky, this wine is meaty in ripeness and texture, with the flavors somewhat askew and leaning tart and tangy.
From the producer's 1,400-foot-high estate vineyard atop the Petaluma Gap, this wine is richly layered in boysenberry, baked cherry and pine. Moderately structured, it has an underlying minerality of stony earth to keep it fresh and balanced despite its robust power and concentration.
Named for proprietor Marimar Torres' mother, the Doña Margarita Pinot is a study in cool-climate nuance and sophistication, elegant yet retaining plenty of stuffing. It is bright in wild strawberry and a decadent hint of kirsch—earthy, lithe and structured, with soft and silky tannins. On the finish is a touch of forest, as inviting as a walk in the woods.
From high atop the hills above Freestone, this Pinot Noir saw 10% stem inclusion during fermentation and was aged in 20% new oak for just over a year to achieve enviable structure and bite amid an intensity of raspberry and strawberry kirsch flavor. This gorgeous wine will open up even more if held in bottle until 2017–2019. But it's so good now you'll find it hard to wait.
Pretty in pink and orange hues, this stainless-steel-fermented charmer has a candied orange flavor that's delicious, followed by fresh, crisp strawberry and tangerine-laced acidity. Medium bodied, it ends with a burst of peach.
Pine forest and tart, lean drops of cranberry, rhubarb and pomegranate combine for a complex, savory and compelling vineyard-designate. A strong presence of tannin marks the finish.
Light in color and soft in the glass, this well-built wine is bursting in red berry and cherry, with aromas of violet and oak and a finish laced in cherry-vanilla. Structured and finessed, it's impressive for hearty pairings like pork or game,
A wealth of maraschino cherry pops in taste and aroma in this wine, followed by dense black cherry and cinnamon. Supple and light-to-medium bodied, it's a balanced expression of the variety, with complexity and character.
Light in texture and color, this is a floral wine, elegant and restrained. Cherry, pomegranate and rose petals dance on the palate, staying focused in acidity and a razor-thin margin of texture.
Rich, thick and swimming in youthful tannin, this is a powerful statement from the producer's estate, a broad-shouldered explosion of fruity and savory flavors. Spicy tea, pomegranate and black cherry mingle around a tartness of grapefruit and blood orange, coalescing into a balanced whole.
From Laguna Ridge Vineyard, which surrounds the producer's winery, this bottling begs to be explored. It's beguiling from the beginning, with unexpected shots of soy, corn nuts and gamy charcuterie. Big, structured tannins support juicy flavors of black cherry and raspberry, resulting in a complex, velvety mouthfeel. Flourishes of dark chocolate and cardamom tease on the finish.
Light in color and texture, this wine at first is muted and shy, getting spicier and earthier as it goes, with a baked strawberry-compote flavor at its core.
Offering a light-toned taste of raspberry coulis with well-defined acidity, this is a soft, silky vineyard-designate with a lilt of orange peel. A wall of tannins guards the finish.
Cherry compote and a flair of kirsch preside over well-tended acidity in this full-bodied wine. Earthy lavender and herb give the wine an ethereal character atop solid, velvety texture and a big oak finish.
From a vineyard planted on the edge of Freestone by James MacPhail of MacPhail Family Wines and respected grower Jim Pratt, this wine opens with a splash of white pepper that persists on the soft, silky palate. Roses and black tea provide savory flavor, with an intensity of forest floor.
Bright and supple, this wine is vibrantly awash in red cherry, raspberry and whisps of vanilla, finishing lean and with plenty of versatility.
Easier to find than Jeriko's Pommard or Dijon bottlings, the Reserve is dark and earthy with mushroom, dark cherry and a tiny bit of spice floating behind the scenes. The 14.7% alcohol level brings this wine into a bigger style of Pinot territory but is welldone and should get even better with time.
Lush and vibrantly balanced, this wine is marked by juicy layers of blueberry, huckleberry and spicy cola and clove. Velvety-smooth on the palate, it's a satisfying, medium-bodied effort that effectively shows the beauty of the site and the vintage.
From both  Pommard and Calera clones, this Pinot offers a generously earthy nose of forest floor and wild mushrooms before delving into subtle black and red cherry  fruit. Weighty on the palate, the tannins are soft, yet the wine finishes lean.
This Pinot offers a substantial amount of big, concentrated fruit, from plum to ripe, almost baked cherry, the kind you'd find in a pie. Pronounced oak underlies a sizable amount of tannin structure, with savory spice and earthy leather layered into the wine.
Savory sandalwood, leather and black fruit are surrounded by a strong, persistent grip of solid tannin in this spicy, cola-layered wine.
From a Charlie Chenoweth-farmed site, this wine is vividly marked by earth and mushroom with bolts of cherry and cranberry. Bright acidity complements a firmness of tannin and texture that flirts with being leathery, the finish all about cola spice.
Named for the producer's beloved English Springer Spaniel, this is a barrel selection from one Dijon clone. The wine is broad-shouldered, piney and juicy in black cherry and raspberry. High acidity tames the sizable tannins before the wine finishes distinctly in clove. Drink now through 2020.
This is a burly red wine from a warm vintage, featuring thick, concentrated, baked blackberry and plum notes. Smoky oak lurks beneath the fruit, adding savory undertones and ample intensity.
From three different sites, all within Green Valley, this is a block and barrel selection, a showcase of rich, ripe, robust baked black cherry and full-bodied gusto. The oak is tenacious and in support of the more delicate nuances of compost and rose.
Tight-grained tannin and texture signal a youthful vigor in this medium-bodied wine that presents itself as thick and dense in wild red fruit. The richer, lusher components are met by bright acidity and a mouthwatering freshness.
Finding a good Anderson Valley Pinot Noir for under $25 is no easy feat and so this Husch bottling is impressive in delivering a fairly good experience for the price. A tad chewy still, with an oaky presence, it shows dark, ripe strawberry and mushroom-y flavors and finishes with some spice.
The Emerson Block is a one-acre collection of east-west facing rows that debuted as its own wine in 2012. It exudes aromas of violets and lavender, with additional hints of white pepper, grenadine and leather, all within a bright streak of acidity.
This medium-bodied appellation wine is impressive in its combination of crisp red fruit, rhubarb, watermelon and pomegranate flavors alongside a dash of orange citrus. The smooth texture adds to the whole, as does a seasoning of allspice, while the finish is snappy in acidity.
A first-release from this site, this is a balanced, lightly textured wine, pretty in rose and lavender, with an intriguing shock of white pepper. Baked cherry and plum find companionship in savory clove and cinnamon on the delicate palate.
A soft, mid-range, medium-bodied Pinot Noir from areas including the Russian River Valley and Sonoma Coast, it imparts aromas of rosemary and herbes de Provence before delving into a world of tart cherry and cranberry. The finish is smoky.
A blend of several vineyards, including Kanzler, Quail Hill and Umino, with some Freestone also in the bottle, this wine was given an almost 50% whole-cluster fermentation. Crisp cherry, strawberry and an inviting squeeze of citrus sit atop darker notes of cinnamon toast, the whole awash in a floral flourish of orange blossom.
This is the producer's first vintage from this vineyard—the grapes were previously sold. The site, which sits within Green Valley as well as the Sonoma Coast, is planted to the same clone as sister property Quail Hill, in coveted Goldridge soils. Soft, round and decadent, the wine is full bodied, with bursts of red fruit and crushed stone.
A barrel-selection of Susanna's, this wine has grip and yet is also silky and elegant. Cranberry and plum star on the palate, bright and plush, the acidity tightly managed and brought to life. Medium bodied, this wine has depth and breadth, finishing in clove and cardamon-dusted orange peel.
This big, oaky and tannic red is robustly laced with cranberry, cherry and cola notes. Moderate acidity keeps it fresh in the glass, with dried herb, mint and tea accents.
Pink-orange in color, this is a tangy, high-acid wine that's not for everyone, given its bracing mix of tangerine and grapefruit. Light-bodied, yet textured, it's a good quaffer and food-friendly companion.
This wine presents itself initially as having a bold, big body, yet is actually light on its feet as it opens, revealing aromas of cherry liqueur, rhubarb joined with a funk of black licorice and sassafras.
A 100% varietal wine fermented in stainless steel, this is a bright, lively tangle of cherry and orange built around bristling acidity that practically sizzles on the palate. Light-bodied and plenty crisp, it mellows to show length and breadth on the finish.
Light and clear in color, this wine opens with a reduced barrel expression, but settles down to reveal soft, earthy and tangy layers of persimmon, cranberry and black tea. Lengthy and medium bodied, it shines most in terms of texture, falling somewhere between silky and velvety.
Opening with a bouquet of stemmy earth, lavender and the perfume of a rose garden, this supple, meaty wine is rich in red and blue fruit that's full bodied and concentrated. It finds a freshness in its tangy cranberry finish.
This wine delivers a fresh hit of zesty acidity and earthiness that balance each other well, that liveliness a good match against more brooding aspects of black tea. Light bodied with just enough weight on the palate, it finishes with tastes of wild raspberry and strawberry.
Made from a selection of heirloom vines, this dense, concentrated wine opens in the glass to take on lighter, more delicate waves of pomegranate and cranberry. The oak is present but never overbearing, providing structure around an ashy finish.
Roses and violets rise up on the nose of this wine, before a pungent fist of dirt and forest floor join the party. Layered on the entry, the midpalate becomes somewhat dull and one-dimensional, leading the way to a quick, bitter finish.
Rose, lavender and forest provide the opening notes of a lovely, concentrated, still-evolving wine, its density and concentration offset by a beguiling brightness of acidity. Strawberry, cranberry and nuanced suggestions of cinnamon and clove play off each other until a toasty finish.
Rustic earth and the aromatic sparks of a rose garden open this wine, named by combining the middle names of the producer and her husband. Tight, youthful tannins hover around chocolate, strawberry and blackberry notes, resulting in a velvety texture on the expansive palate. It finishes quietly and confidently, eager to develop further in bottle; enjoy through 2023.
This wine starts with aromas of bread and butter, a richness that's inviting and unusual, before filling in on the palate with juicy, high-toned layers of red berry and cherry. Young and approachable, the wine is light bodied and delicate.
This is a soft, silky and ultimately impressive wine, darkly brooding in mushroomy, forested earth and an undeniable luxuriousness of cherry cola. Medium bodied and easy to enjoy, it's a complete wine that's firm in minerality and tension.
Fruit-forward and luxurious, this is an estate-grown wine. Savory and soft, it traffics in dried cranberry and cherry besides a taste of truffle and black tea. Fresh and vibrant on the palate, it ends in a flush of caramel.
A deep, dense concentration of black cherry and berry provides richness and juiciness to this wine, the fruit wrapped around velvety waves of full-bodied texture and a supporting wall of oak. Earthy licorice and black tea appear on the long finish.
Clear and light in color, this complex vineyard-designate sings in tea and nutmeg spice, allowing for richer, riper flavors of baked cherry. Velvety in texture, it builds to a full-figured finish, echoing that initial savory intrigue of black tea.
Silky yet slightly grippy, this is a mineral-driven wine, with violet and spicy cardamom aromas atop bright, vibrant swathes of cherry and wild strawberry. This vineyard is where Joseph Swan himself first planted Pinot Noir, it retains all the promise and greatness of his initial discovery of this magical place along the Laguna Ridge.
This is a stemmy, mouth-filling Pinot Noir crafted from Anderson Valley fruit, showing cherry and pomegranate with a touch of toast.
Made from grapes grown on the Olivet Lane Vineyard, this wine features a ripe softness marked in sandalwood, cherry and earthy strawberry, the body and acidity levels moderate.
Jammy blue fruit and cherries immerse themselves within a context of inviting and densely packed earth in this coastal, estate-grown wine. Spicy acidity and pronounced wood add additional weight and complexity as the texture takes on velvety lushness that's fully balanced and considerate.
A brooding texture and fully layered concentration of intense flavor spark the palate and mind in this estate wine, which is showy in cola, bark, black cherry and black tea. Medium bodied and well-made, it finds balance between its coastal influence, its crisp acidity and the burlier aspects of fruit and weight.
Bright, simple and moderate in acidity and body, with a wealth of ripeness, this wine offers a strong sensibility of smoked cherry and cola flavor, finished in oaky vanilla.
Cinnamon, nutmeg and black pepper vie for attention in this full-bodied, concentrated estate-grown wine. Dried herb, earth and plummy blackberry compote form the midpalate, before tart cranberry and rhubarb elements arise on the finish.
The mighty Hirsch rises to the occasion of a burly, near-perfect vintage, showing off its ability to be brawny and brainy at the same time. Black fruit, tar and tea take center stage, with an intensely tannic underbelly specked in wild herb and smoke. This baby needs time. Drink now after decanting or cellar through 2023.
High-toned acidity provides a backbone of structure amid the otherwise luscious profile of this wine that's delightfully light and bright in pomegranate, black cherry and spicy citrus. Deliciously juicy and textured on the palate, it finishes with a touch of tobacco and black tea.
This wine takes a light approach to ripeness and oak, letting the freshness of the fruit speak with abandon. Bristling in acidity, it offers a layering of complementary dark cherry, huckleberry, pomegranate and cola, before a thick concentration of power peaks on the finish.
Pungent earth is met by dark handfuls of baking spice, dried cherry and chocolate in this rich, velvety and full-bodied wine that's smooth and rounded on the palate.
Succulent and complex, this wine offers substantial body and lush plushness on the palate, alluring in its layering of cardamom spice and orange, cranberry and cherry. Satisfyingly ripe, with inimitable balance, it shows the elegance possible in spite of the appellation's power.
Riddle is in Green Valley, on a high ridge prone to morning fog. This resulting effort showcases a sizzling, mouthwatering basket of wild strawberry, cherry and vanilla tea, managing to be plush, lush and elegant simultaneously. Juicy and pleasurable, it's immediately enjoyable, silky and the right kind of rich.
From some of the property's oldest vines, this wine conveys a nostalgic component that's hard to resist, an approachability that meets length and breadth. Baked bread, cherry, vanilla and black tea give way to zesty acidity and a note of forest floor, but nothing competes with the allure of rose petals and orange blossoms that beckon around every corner.
Light in texture, this wine shows a fair amount of barrel influence aromatically. On the palate, it's similarly challenging to disregard the oak, which frames a mid-weight body marked by sour cherry.
Light in color, this is a smoky, thick and oaky red wine that evolves to reveal a delicate texture as it nears its finish. The fruit is densely packed and jammy, as well as nicely layered.
Earthy cranberry and orange compote surround this soft, seductive wine, made in relatively easy-to-find quantities and available at an attractive price. Forest floor and black tea tinge the still-tannic finish.
Funky in spearmint and a carbonic notion of freshness, this wine offers cranberry and barely ripe strawberry, adding to its sense of delicacy. Mild shakes of white pepper play on the palate, as the finish finds a bolder weight of tannin.
Tart and herbal in sage, this is a densely concentrated wine that wraps its head around black cherry, cranberry, pomegranate and black tea. A note of freshly baked bread pokes through on the nose and within the fruitier, savory flavors.
Made in tiny amounts in a light-bodied style, its vineyard site in the cool Petaluma Gap, this wine opens in earthy soapstone and sandalwood, offering an aroma of dried flowers. Delicate acidity supports a funkiness of cranberry, rhubarb and nutmeg, while a suggestion of roses lurks in the background.
This coastal wine hails from two sites, including the Gloria Vineyard in Sebastopol, and Hummingbird Hill in the Petaluma Gap. It stays true to form in its light approach and high-toned acidity. Earthy, light in color and bristling in black tea, cranberry and pomegranate, it's lightly spiced in cardamom.
Earth and mushroom dominate this lighter-style wine, offering aromas and flavors of forest floor and fresh soil, and even a taste of black tea shyly dancing in the background. Well-balanced and complex, it has a silky texture and long, smooth finish.
This sultry, supple wine exudes aromas and flavors of baking spices and dark cherry pie, remaining brooding atop a full-bodied texture. Despite the oaky density, it retains a floral back note and bright, lengthy finish.
Fragrant and inviting in dark cherry, raspberry and cola spice, this medium-weight Pinot Noir is lush and meaty. Bright flavors veer from dark cherry to raspberry, with a pronounced lift of earth and herb. The wine is layered, beautifully textured and long in the finish.
Pretty and perfumed it exhibits dark cherry from start to finish. Spice and cola notes explode midway through, and that see-saw balance between fruit and spice persists into the finish. Round and soft, with a lean texture, it's very enjoyable.
Earth and rose petal notes open on the nose of this vineyard designate, a sultry and succulent wine that will please in its fullness of body and texture. Hearty blue and red berry flavors give it juiciness on the palate, seasoned with cola and cinnamon.
Cherry, cinnamon and vanilla play on the light-bodied, softly layered palate of this estate wine that develops flavor and aroma over time in the glass. Deeper, darker waves of boysenberry enter the picture toward the finish.
Thick and dense in oak, this is a basic and generic version of the variety. Medium in weight it hints at elements of forest floor, tea and black cherry fruit.
A new entrant into the world of fine Carneros Pinot Noir, Gehricke is named for a prominent road in the area. The wine is perfumed in fresh gardenia and sassafras, with grippy and exotic overtones of dark cherry and spice throughout.
Block 10 was made with 25% whole cluster fermentation, the result bold and impressive in cola cherry and soft baking spices, an intriguing floral note akin to geranium or gardenia highlighting the palate. Midway, expect an expansive opening of the wine, before notes of cocoa and espresso delve in.
This wine is bold and brawny, defined by big, oaky tannin and concentrated weight. Fresh black cherry develops a candied quality in the glass, while an earthy undercurrent of minty forest adds complexity.
Light in color and texture, this wine at first is muted and shy, getting spicier and earthier as it goes, with a baked strawberry-compote flavor at its core.
Tightly coiled in fruit and oak, this is a young yet vibrantly lush, plush and juicy wine.It's ready to expand on the palate as it opens to reveal exotic baking spice, textured velvety softness and swathes of black cherry and pomegranate. Medium bodied and exuberant, it'll drink well with food.
This structured rosé packs a punch in tannins at first, but is balanced and dry. Refreshing bursts of wild berries and savory herb lead to a smooth and exotic finish. The subtle power reflects the vintage and Green Valley-sourced vineyards.
Light in color with an herbal profile, this lightly textured wine offers tart cherry and dry tannins with a bite of oak on the finish. Having undergone partial whole-cluster fermentation (30%), it also has a forested, savory character, streaked in cedar and baking spice. Most of the grapes hail from Sonoma Mountain, rounded out by Sonoma Coast, Russian River Valley and Mendocino fruit.
Winemaker James MacPhail continues to refine his solo project with this Annapolis-sourced effort, a smooth layered expression of baked strawberry and rose petal herbaceousness. Lingering fruitiness makes it lovely to enjoy, as the oak remains a background player in full support of the succulence and ripe power. Still young, it should continue to open further over time.
Lush and concentrated in texture, this vineyard-designate is bright and tart with a bite of crunchy tannin and a bouquet of rose and lavender lurking on the nose. Light bodied and ultimately balanced, it brightens on the palate with a whirl of blood orange that complements the cranberry, pomegranate and cherry cola.
This is a nice, lower-priced option of the variety, spicy in raspberry and strawberry, with a medium-built weight. Bulky in tannins that soften in the glass, its simplicity doesn't dete. There's a lasting note of toasted oak on the wine as it winds down.
A blend of Sean Thackrey's four Pinot clones, all grown in one block of the Wentzel Vineyard, this wine is a baby still, soft and lush and ready to develop further. Interesting to taste now, with hints of each of its clonal brethren. Give this wine another 3–5 years and see which has taken front row.
An earthy, spicy and lean wine, veering on austere, this is elegant and softly layered. Wild strawberry, mushroom and forest combine with a subtle suggestion of black tea and cinnamon to form a delicious experience that's long-lasting on the palate.
With a concentrated bouquet of black cherry and leathery earth, this straddles the richness of California fruit with an Old World layering of savory sumptuousness. Built with structure and subtle acidity, it is meant to be enjoyed at the table, a pork tenderloin or mushroom quiche among the pairing possibilities.
Peach-blush in color, this is a pretty, floral and aromatic wine, dry and delicious in peach and strawberry flavors. A hint of herbs marks the finish. Enjoy with a picnic, especially goat cheese and charcuterie.
Tight-grained tannin plays a supporting role to this wine's undeniable earthiness, a mix of compost and wild mushroom. Subtle on the nose, the savory character gives way eventually to a density and concentration of brighter flavors, from cherry and citrus to spiky pine.
Light in color and stemmy and spicy in equal parts, this light, bright wine is complex and intriguing in its offering of white pepper, baker's yeast and cranberry coated in vanilla. It delivers flavor and nuance in a pleasing showcase of the variety.
This is the third bottling of this wine, which employs whole-cluster fermentation to provoke a slower ferment and mellowed tannin. It succeeds, though it doesn't hold back, showing plenty of firm tannin backbone seasoned by clove, black tea, sage and anise. The acidity tingles on the palate.
Spicy, this full-bodied wine is tart in cherry and piquant in baking spices, able to retain a lively and fresh palate within the weightier proceedings. It has a brooding, brushy underbelly of forest-floor pine.
A fleshy, big-boned Pinot Noir from high-elevation grapes, Brassfield is priced fairly and a nice wine full of cranberry and leather, intense and coarsely textured.
There's a noticeable tilt of barrel reduction in this wine that keeps it more closed-off than desired. Otherwise, the experience is full bodied in baked bread and black cherry, with a tangy freshness to the finish.
Grilled mushroom and a gamy note define this wine, from the highest point of the winery's estate. It's velvety thick, smoky, concentrated and forested in flavor, with strong accents of dried herb.
Spicy, dense and thick, this wine settles into bright, lifted acidity and tart flavors of rhubarb and cranberry. The underbelly remains earthy in clove and black tea.
This is a blockbuster, blustery wine, 30% whole-cluster fermented, with a wealth of concentration and oak. Earthy and funky on the nose, it's soft, ripe and dense, with a hearty mix of cola spice and juicy black cherry, offering lots of dry tannin on the finish.
It's like Christmas in a glass the way the aromas on this wine settle keenly on pine and sugar plum. Earthy with a touch of dried herb, the wine's mouthfeel is velvety with a kick, the body full-figured in blackberry intensity, with the whole wrapped in substantial oak. The weight and firmness suggest cellaring, through 2017.
Simple and thinly textured, this wine shows a mixture of plum and wild strawberry fruit against a backdrop of fresh earth.
Lipsmacking currents of raspberry and cherry offer a refreshing brightness and juicy profile to this silky wine that's also well-integrated in terms of acidity and oak. Medium bodied and restrained in alcohol, the finish is abbreviated, but spicy.
This is a young, wild and dense wine, intense in oak and strong-willed red cherry and strawberry fruit. Full-bodied and still smoothing out its rough edges, the big tannin structure should allow a length of aging through 2020.
Red raspberry is at the core of this crisp, fresh and medium-bodied estate wine, savory in cranberry and tea. Seamless and silky, it finishes tart, a complex example of a cool site and cool vintage crafted by an experienced winemaker, Jeff Pisoni.
Beguiling streaks of red cherry surround a light, spicy, food-friendly core that's well balanced and integrated, the oak and tannin elegantly respectful of the red fruit. It offers medium weight amid the smoothness.
A selection of barrels from the same estate vineyard, this unctuous, brawny wine remains grippy on the palate, needing time in cellar, through 2020. Time should tame the tannins and lure in the black cherry and licorice, wrapped in luxurious swathes of blackberry and dried herb.
High-toned strawberry and cherry open this medium-bodied wine that takes on heavier, darker overtones of dried herb, nutmeg and black tea as it goes. From a meticulously farmed vineyard also known for Chardonnay, it conveys a stamp of tobacco on the oak that invites thoughts of leather chairs and cigars.
Lightly colored and tightly wound, this wine offers a bouquet of rose petals around a core of cherry and cranberry with buoyant acidity. A low oak profile helps boost the fruit-forwardness and approachability of the wine, with just a tiny bite of tannin on the finish.
This wine comes from a vineyard 1,000 feet above Annapolis owned by Thomas Rivers Brown and Fred Schrader, and farmed by Ulises Valdez. It demands time to open, concentrated as it is in juicy blackberry, plum and a hit of earth, the tannins integrated and silky soft.
From a six-acre site further inland than many of the producer's other sources, this wine shines in classic coastal expression nonetheless. It presents a mix of earthy, stemmy forest and black tea, with a touch of reduction and lightness of oak and power. Delicately textured, it delivers a refined style.
Green Valley vineyards figure prominently in this appellation wine, providing delicate, layered acidity and crisp, savory, succulent fruit. Cranberry, cherry and black tea flavors ripple through its bright texture, accented with clove, cola and cedar.
Smoky oak meets a soft texture that showcases black cherry and berry in this full-bodied red. It's boldly lush and seasoned in classic hints of cola.
A bold, chewy expression of the variety, Summit exhibits its 15% whole-cluster fermentation. It also is given more oak, a chance to tame its wild black cherry and lush cola spice. Black tea and a trace of red fruit play into the personality of the wine, adding a brightness to what is otherwise a decadent, full-throttle wine, barely tamed at that. Drink now through 2023.
From a vineyard off of Lakeville Highway in the heart of the Petaluma Gap, drilled by winds, this is a concentrated, thick-skinned wine, dark and oaky. A fistful of earthy mushroom, herb and forest surrounds a foundation of blueberry compote and cola, the acidity high and well mannered. Drink now through 2023.
An exuberantly juicy and fulfilling wine, this designate from a site near Lovall Valley is awash in blackberry and blueberry, showing off healthy waves of concentration and structure. Spicy cinnamon and orange peel dot the landscape before a punch of tannin and vanilla oak close out the finish.
A complex wine that takes time to unveil itself, this offers muted dark cherry and exotic cardamom spice, light and layered through the midpalate before revealing a taste of toasty oak on the finish.
Floral in aroma, this was aged in one-third new French oak and left unfined and unfiltered. It offers tart cherry and wild strawberry notes in a light-toned, ripe package, the secondary characteristics herbal and earthy.
This balanced and fuller style of Pinot Noir celebrates the classic traits of Russian River's warmer pockets. It offers plenty of dark fruit, from blackberry to raspberry and black cherry, with sultry, fine-hewn tannins and juicy texture.
This is a rich, broad-shouldered Pinot Noir, woodsy and oaky with a firm and fierce grip on the palate. It leans more toward earth and smoke than exuberant fruit. Textured in soft undertones of silk, it also offers plenty of fresh herb, a component to take advantage of in pairing.
Finding a good Anderson Valley Pinot Noir for under $25 is no easy feat and so this Husch bottling is impressive in delivering a fairly good experience for the price. A tad chewy still, with an oaky presence, it shows dark, ripe strawberry and mushroom-y flavors and finishes with some spice.
A shock of ripe raspberry and grenadine marks the entry of this sexy wine, which is tingling in cinnamon spice and forested earth. Softly layered and smooth, it offers both structure and weight, and is approachable now.
Elusive raspberry tries to find its way to the fore of this big-bodied Pinot, its time in oak apparent yet integrated. Savory herb notes provide a complexity and balance against the dark cherry fruit, rounding out a wine that has girth but also finesse.
From a Freestone-based vineyard, this wine offers an earthy funkiness on the nose, veering into forest floor, that then evolves into dark cherry and vanilla. A deep imprint of oak is felt on the palate, along with a tart rhubarb-like finish accented by a touch of black pepper.
This light-bodied wine is intriguing in its shocks of white pepper, rose-petal aroma and dark-cherry flavor. Well balanced and fresh, it shows a bite of sizable tannin midpalate that softens and is tamed on the finish.
Full bodied and gritty in texture, this wine smooths out in the glass, opening to slowly unravel layers of forest pine, black cherry and cola. With measured oak, it has a depth and breadth across the palate, revealing concentration within a graceful context.
There's funky earthiness to this otherwise ripe and full-bodied wine, a taste of raspberry and strawberry hulls contributing additional wildness. Cola and dark cherry contribute secondary flavors around moderate acidity.
Textured in bold cranberry and strawberry fruit, this older Pinot still offers plenty of fruit and weight, though neither will necessarily last much longer. It shows a softness, and streaks of herb and allspice, too. This wine offers a chance to travel back in time to a healthy vintage for Anderson Valley and see the intermingling of savory with sweet.
Unfiltered, this is an invitingly earthy wine, marked by truffle and forest, with a generous concentration of black cherry that's impacted quite a bit by oak. Velvety smooth, it's substantial on the palate.
Offering value and full-bodied flavor, this wine sources grapes from Price Family, Durell and Wildcat Canyon, among others. It finds a way to be earthy and herbal while also fruity. A leathery texture and medium acidity combine for likable complexity, the wine ultimately retaining its savory bones.
Wrapped in a coat of oak that provides toasty character, this voluptuously concentrated wine is marked by deeply defined flavors of cola, blackberry and cherry, lifted and given a sense of freshness by spicy acidity.
Fruit from the Cummings Vineyard and Thale's Vineyard is represented in this wine. A varietal expression of floral, fruity aromas and flavors, it's thick, concentrated and wrapped in smoky oak. Chocolate cherry makes it seem luxuriously ripe and lush.
This tiny-production wine from a great vineyard sings in a layered perfume of roses, forest floor, pomegranate and more nuanced elements of cola and dark cherry. Bright and elegant within a substantive body, it is inviting in equal measures of plant, fruit and spice, showing tremendous taste.
From the legendary Hyde, a source since 1996, this vintage continues the greatness of the prior years, showing depths of fresh dirt and spice. Stewy damson plum, blackberry and black cherry provide succulent complex, ripe flavors accented in vanilla and cinnamon. The acidity is mouthwatering.
Light in color and silky in texture, this earthy wine offers overtones of cinnamon, dark cherry, raspberry and clove. Well integrated in terms of oak and tannin, it's full-bodied enough to please those who like a bigger styled wine.
This is full-bodied expression of the variety, big in oak and tannin presence, grippy still, with a leathery feel on the palate. Baked plum is seasoned by a hint of clove and cola, finishing expansively.
From a section of the producer's Quail Hill Vineyard, this wine sings with smoky sage and forest floor notes, its tingling acidity emphasizing freshness. Its backbone of thick tannins offers strength and power, contrasting more delicate layers of blueberry flavor.
Sizzling acidity enlivens the succulent, juicy fruit in this lush expression of the appellation. Made from grapes sourced in the Olivet Lane area, it builds in exotic spiciness, with forest, herb, earth and tea accents that grace the foundation of strawberry and blackberry flavors.
This is a delicious, memorable wine that does the vineyard justice, offering layers of baked strawberry fruit tempered by moderate acidity. As it slowly opens, it reveals rose petal, cherry and pomegranate flavors, its texture broad yet defined.
Big, brawny tannins carry wave after wave of ripe black cherry, cola and clove flavor in this ethereal, earthy wine. Its velvety texture is rich and rewarding, balanced by a persistent thread of acidity and a tease of ash.
Baked bread, pine forest and strawberry rise out of the glass in this relatively light yet complex and layered wine, spicy in cinnamon and black tea. It shows the powerful grace of good winemaking, showcasing the appellation's beauty and brawn from a warm, even year.
Another triumph of fine winemaking, this appellation wine is leathery and full bodied, wild and savory in tea, strawberry hull and rocky earth. It shines in subtle acidity and plenty of structure, with ample body to support its angular temptations.
From one of the estate's west-sloping blocks, this wine sizzles in acidity, with seductive layers of kirsch, maraschino cherry and raspberry, counterbalanced by Carneros earth and spice. Lengthy and full bodied, it's luxurious and beautiful, integrated in oak, with a lengthy end note of orange peel spiked in cloves.
This vineyard-designate rocks its way into your heart, opening in spicy, soft aromas of cinnamon stick and dark, luscious fruit and toasted oak. Medium in body with a light finish, it teases along the way in fragrant rose petals and orange blossom.
From several blocks planted to a mix of clones, this wine is defined almost entirely by its earthy, stemmy core of compost and tobacco, with a slight reductive quality on the palate. Smoky, toasted oak rounds out the richness.
Plump tannins and ripe black cherry mark this wine, the structure and savory components also standing out. The finish carries a suggestion of cinnamon spice.
Adorned with a gorgeous label, the artwork of film production designer Dean Tavoularis, this spicy, earthy Pinot Noir has medium weight with supple tannins and toasty oak. With velvety layers of dark ripe cherry and black tea, this is classically Dutton Ranch Russian River Valley, and it finishes long and spicy.
This offers a well-defined balance between ripe, juicy cherry fruit and a seductive earthiness that keeps every sip intriguing. Structured and medium in weight, it's a fine choice for the table, the spiciness on the back palate particularly well-honed and worth recognition.
Sourced from Rodgers Creek Vineyard, this is an ethereal, feminine Pinot, sublime in color and texture, bright in tart cherry. Brisk in acidity, it offers an undercurrent of dried herbes de Provence, cinnamon and exotic spice, evolving in the glass as it goes.
An estate blend of 12 different clones, this dark ruby wine is bristling in acidity and swirling in flavors of strawberry, cherry and wild fennel. Well integrated and concentrated, it offers a fully balanced, elegnat expression of the site. It provides a perfect introduction to the winery's lineup of site-specific Pinots. Start here and delve deeper; this wine is both a preview of and statement of more to come.
From a coastal vineyard in the southwest corner of the Russian River Valley, this is earthy and brambly on the nose, inviting in its sense of wild abandon. Concentrated yet vibrant in acidity, the flavors lean toward cranberry and tart cherry, completely enveloped in intriguing cardamom spice. Elegant and balanced.
From the vineyard around viticulturist Anne Moller-Racke's home planted to the Donum clone, this is a stunner from start to finish, an elegantly tousled expression of mint and bay leaf that's big-boned at first, yet completely lively and fresh on the palate, settling into a place of grace, bursting in brooding dark berry, cherry, cinnamon and clove all wrapped up in a sultry texture.
Tightly wound and leathery on the palate, this wine is ultimately light-bodied. The flavors mix dried cherry, blackberry, tobacco and sage.
Robust in oak, this full-bodied expression of the variety is reduced on the palate, showing sizable tannin weight and length. Plum, dark cherry and dried herb combine to offer swirls of flavor.
Sourced from the estate's best blocks, this opens in a seductive whiff of bay leaf and sour, muddled cherry and strawberry, with lacings of orange for refreshing tang. Full bodied and concentrated, with sizable tannin providing structure and complexity, the density is balanced by ample acidity.
Feral on the nose and palate, awash in cherry but also a savage garden of wild rose, this wine is precociously young. It expands slowly in the glass finally to unleash a ferocity of cranberry and raspberry. Drink 2018 through 2024.
Cherry and orange please the palate immediately, with a subversive note of peat and forest—it's a good commingling of fruit and exotic savory elements that remain memorable through the lengthy complexity of medium-bodied, velvety texture and weight. This wine is so good now it'd be hard to set it down, but it will reward cellaring, through 2024.
From the proprietor's sought-after vineyard site, on the southern side of Sonoma Mountain near Gap's Crown, up to 1,400-feet high, this wine is concentrated in cherry kirsch and orange peel, with a sultry hint of pine. Underlying flirtations with white pepper and cardamom provide further temptation, as the lengthy finish rambles on.
Another of the producer's inaugural releases, this hails from the heart of Carneros where vineyards once belonging to Buena Vista had stood. Characteristic of the appellation, the wine is earthy and herbal, with light, crisp waves of grenadine and strawberry, staying light and textured on the palate.
A light, straightforward and focused wine, 100% varietal, this offers cranberry, mushroom and a complexity of tannin and oak. High acidity dances around fresh layers of strawberry and raspberry on the palate, with a grippy, cinnamon-spiced finish.
Muddled at first, this wine comes around to reveal a strong, floral component of rose water and geranium, staying light and fresh on the palate, subtle yet flavorful. It finishes earthy in Asian spice.
Earthy compost and sage provide a rustic undertone to this well-made wine, dotted in cranberry, green tea and a hint of menthol. Medium bodied, it offers velvety texture and body within a graceful structure.
An ebullient, gorgeous example of cool-climate Pinot Noir from an 1,800-feet elevation vineyard at the north end of the Anderson Valley. Sheldon's Roma is classic in its layers of nuanced cherry, raspberry, spice and acidity. Focused and intensely delicious.
From a section of the rocky vineyard planted to the Martini clone, a thick-skinned grape, Deer Camp is full bodied, densely concentrated and marked by a streak of spiciness throughout. It's perfumed with roses and forest floor, while it presents a texture that is seductively velvety and smooth.
Yeasty like baked bread, this is a robust wine embodied by mint and dried herb, the tannins smoothly polished. The fruit speaks to edgy cranberry and red cherry, never getting sweet, yet still offering plenty of juicy flavor.
This intensely powerful wine is named in honor of the winery's co-proprietor and founder. Chewy and earthy, it's concentrated and robust, strong in black-cherry cola and truffle. From the estate vineyard surrounding the winery, it's for those who love their Pinots bold and velvety.
Plum and cranberry mark the entry into this clone-specific wine, which becomes expansively juicy as it makes its way on the palate. Orange peel, cranberry and cardamom provide an exotic take on the variety, ending in earth and spice.
This is made from estate-grown fruit in Jamieson Canyon, on the extreme southern end of the valley. Delicate in style with a soft and silky texture, it imparts rhubarb and cranberry accents around a core of rose flavor.
Soft, and dancing in strong, present acidity, this wine honors the vineyard site in its bright, fresh components of rhubarb and pomegranate. Within the freshness and savory seasonings of sage and black tea, it remains boldly robust and ripe, with plenty of density.
Joseph Jewell's 2009 Elk Prairie is even better than its 2008, which is saying something. This vintage opens with perfumed cola spice and cinnamon that evolves in its lightly textured, lush mouthfeel into decadent strawberry in crème Anglaise. Bright, with a lingering finish, this Pinot Noir only gets better while in the glass.
Bombastic and burly, this wine holds a depth of black raspberry and cherry at its edge, surrounded in swathes of smoky oak. Rich and full bodied, it is a testament to the intrigue of baking spices and black tea, but more significantly to dark chocolate and espresso.
This generous wine is big and full on the nose, with two-thirds new French oak making itself felt in texture and aroma but entirely well-managed, resulting in a balanced wine. Forest floor and earth tones burst on the palate, followed by brambly dark berry fruit, the texture soft to the finish, which offers some grip.
Light and spicy, this hails from cool-climate sites. It is exhilarating in cinnamon and clove, with a structured core of wild strawberry and a finish of fennel. The aromas of violet that waft forward on the nose are incredibly inviting, as is the wine's silky texture.
A small-production wine from longtime growers, this is light and herbal, integrated in wood and tannin. It's vibrant and fresh on the palate and nose in plum and wild strawberry. High in gentle acidity, it provides a note of black tea and earthy truffle on the finish. Drink now through 2021.
This is the inaugural release of a tiny new project from winemaker James MacPhail and his wife, Kerry Forbes-MacPhail. Inspired by wines that “dance on the tongue,” it's a worthy debut, showcasing earthy, stemmy roses, herb, tar and tea, layered across a soft, juicy palate of baked orange marmalade and cardamom.
A generous body and oak stand out most in this wine, which leans sour in tannin and bittersweet chocolate more than fruit. A forest-floor component keeps it savory, with a taste of yeasty bread.
Earthy sage and black licorice invite one into this dark brooding expression of the grape, defined in exotic blackberry, black cherry and smoke. Medium bodied and softly smooth, it impresses in its brush with the dark side.
Light and clear in color this wine is somewhat simple on the palate and marked by the presence of oak. Light bodied, it has flavors of baked bread and strawberry jam that get along well before a wave of vanilla lingers on the finish.
Unfiltered, this is an invitingly earthy wine, marked by truffle and forest, with a generous concentration of black cherry that's impacted quite a bit by oak. Velvety smooth, it's substantial on the palate.
Light in color, Q is the winery's second vintage of a single-vineyard, single-clone expression of the variety. Concentrated in dark-cherry flavor, it's soft and silky on the palate, with an undercurrent of smoky oak and cedar.
Earthy, velvety and spicy, this is lean and balanced in acidity with a meatiness to the midpalate and finish. Layered, it is concentrated in nuanced cherry and raspberry with a depth of forest floor.
From a barrel selection of the Quintus block, planted to the 828 clone of Pinot Noir, this wine offers a bigger mouthfeel and heartier vinous experience, awash in darker cherry fruit and more substantial tannin. Floral in rose and violet on the nose, those floral highlights return on the palate, giving the wine a nice tension and balance.
Intense and feral in brooding dark cherry, this Terra Neuma from the extreme Sonoma Coast vineyard known as De Coelo is owned and tended to by the Benziger family, who pull out all the stops with its annual collection of Pinots from the site. Earthy, this one is also silky, subdued and quite elegant.
Fantastically bright acidity defines this wine, the winery's “finest selection,” which is memorable for its crisp black cherry and strawberry core of fruit. Voluptuous and silky on the palate, it carries a hint of Asian spice throughout, the slightest taste of wild vanilla wrapping things up on the finish.
Named for the soil layers important to wine's terroir, this Pinot is sourced from a variety of sites and multiple clones, providing a complexity of wild strawberry, high acidity and an herbaceous, oaky backdrop. A teasing kiss of toffee and chocolate on the finish is deliciously intriguing.
Jenkins is a Charlie Chenoweth-farmed site, an 18-acre vineyard in the Sebastopol Hills. Spicy acidity cradles considerable weight and breadth, accented in rose petals, cardamom and an elusive partnership of raspberry and strawberry. It's entirely exotic and delicious, both concentrated and lush.
With a handsome percentage of whole-cluster fermentation in the mix, this wine shows a funky undercurrent of marshmallow and mushroom. It never quite finds its voice amid a light-bodied texture and disjointed body.
Sheldon's Roma's Vineyard Pinot Noir is exquisite. Very light in color (and alcohol level at 12.9 percent), it opens with gorgeous raspberry and violet aromas. Fully satisfying from start to finish, it has a lush mouthfeel, cherry spice high tones and a long, easy finish that will tempt you to want more. This is a beautiful wine. Only 60 cases made.
Initially dense and brooding, this wine reveals lightly etched layers of cherry and strawberry on the palate. Just the right accent of earthy dirt and stone round out the finish.
Feral in earth and mushroom forest, this wine is big in ripeness and body. Sizable tannins distract from the fruit.
From an estate vineyard, this wine is somewhat unformed and quite feral, largely tannic, with a rough-hewn texture. The oak is overwhelming and needs time to settle, to better reveal the abundance of strawberry and cherry fruit.
This Oregon-based producer has sourced Petaluma Gap grapes to craft a light, clear and somewhat smoky and full-bodied expression of the variety. It's dense and rich in black cherry, currant and cola-vanilla.
A fuller-bodied, richer and denser style of Pinot Noir than many of the producer's other offerings, this one traffics in toasted oak and tannin before revealing dark cherry and leather. Generous, it finishes dry and with power. Cellar through 2022.
An earthy wine from the Laguna Ridge neighborhood within the Russian River Valley, this features a light yet richly textured mingling of cinnamon, clove, wild strawberry and aromatic violet. Offering depth and length, this is a delicious representation of both the region and the vintage.
Earthy and just the slightest touch reduced, this is a feral, juicy and intriguing wine from the well-known site, complex and medium to almost light-bodied in texture and approach. Cherry and pomegranate compote meet cardamom baking spices to suggest warmth and comfort in a glass.
Once known as Nugent Vineyard, Winside is a blend of Dijon and Pommard clones that's on the more robust side, especially in this climatically perfect vintage. Offering exuberant red cherry fruit and layers of cola and milk chocolate, it's ready to enjoy with pork tenderloin and similarly hearty fare.
Fruity in black plum and ripe raspberry, it's structured and weighty on the palate, dark and brambly with firm, substantial tannins. The grapes come from both Rancho Carneros and the mighty Hyde Vineyard, both sites planted to relatively older vines, which show through in this wine's savory side.
Wild in barely ripe strawberry, grapefruit and a hint of mint, it hails from great ground, the Bucher Vineyard along Russian River Valley's Westside Road. A tinge of orange blossom and orange playfully intermingle on the nose and on the palate. Midweight and layered, it's a lovely wine.
This exceedingly light wine was given very subtle amounts of oak. It offers a sophisticated take on sassafras and Bing cherry within an earthy, structured shell that imparts a medium-bodied mouthfeel and plenty of acidity. From a site in Sebastopol, it needs time to open in the glass.
Succulent and juicy in velvety waves of black-cherry cola, this is a delicious expression of Durell, with intriguing teases of truffle, black tea and forest floor. Concentrated and full bodied, it offers additional seasonings of cinnamon and black pepper, which persist through a long finish. Enjoyable now, this wine is structured to cellar through 2020.
From a relatively warm site within the burgeoning Petaluma Gap, this wine offers lush, velvety layers of blackberry, mint and dried herb, employing some whole-cluster fermentation to add to the weight and concentration. Perfumed in spice, it retains plenty of structure; it would be a good one to cellar, through 2023.
The winery's third vintage from this cooler-climate vineyard offers a mix of bright red cherry, wild, dried herb, rose and anise aromas rising to the fore. Lingering acidity keeps the firm tannins at bay—the two opposites finding a peaceful balance, allowing a freshness of citrus to succulently creep in on the finish.
Made from 100% Pinot Noir grapes left for more than two years en tirage, this is a dark reddish-pink wine with an intensity of strawberry and raspberry that falls a tad flat midway through and into the finish. With a tiny amount of sugar, it veers slightly sweet.
Light and clear in color, this vineyard-designate combines earthiness and oak in a slightly tart and oak-laden package, unsure whether to let the oak overpower or not. Wild strawberry and herb can be found within the folds.
From a particular block of an estate vineyard, this is a high-strung, high-acid Pinot that's earthy and piquant on the tongue. The aromas offer a mix of spearmint and dried herb.
Sharp in acidity while silky on the palate, this blend of 12 estate blocks is the Pinot made in the largest quantity by the winery. Soft, pretty and approachable, it offers red cherry, blackberry, rose petal and cola spice, with a bite of oak on the finish.
Greenwood suggests cellaring this wine for four years but in the meantime it's more baked bread than earthy, red fruit and pretty high in acidity.
Light copper in color, this Vin Gris at first has crisp acidity and muted aromatics that unveil slowly in the glass. A bite of tannin gives it structure and direction, brightened by notes of orange and red cherry.
This wine has a compelling earthy funkiness that's both varietal and fun, a tangle of red fruit, sassafras and cardamom that's light and bright. It makes a great companion to food.
Intensely earthy, this wine hails predominantly from Susanna's Vineyard, a site in the heart of the Green Valley section of the larger Russian River Valley that's known for its elevation and coolness. Here, crisp raspberry and cherry do provide a sense of that coolness, but the wine develops into a substantial behemoth of full-bodied richness and weight, with a powerful, peppery finish.
Sourced from six different vineyards, this is a broadly pleasing wine, fruity in blackberry and raspberry that veers even into cranberry and cassis territory without getting bogged down. Substantial and lush, it's tightly woven in tannin and savory herb, ready to open itself over time. Patience will reward with more exotic interweavings of vanilla-cola and tea.
This wine intoxicates aromatically in wild cherry and strawberry before entering into an entirely different direction of feral earth. Softly smooth on the palate, it's enjoyable now and an interesting taste experience, with an unfussy finish.
Mighty Klopp fruit is hard to get, and the tiny production of this wine reflects the coveted nature of these grapes. Justice is done; this beauty shows funky, soft and floral characteristics that persist on the palate, along a streak of black cherry and chocolate.
Dried herb, forest, berry and black peppery cola combine on the nose and palate to delirious effect, making way for a velvety texture of medium-sized body and weight. Sourced from several vineyards, including some estate, this wine satisfies on every level.
Heady with aromas of rose petals, this wine has a thin, light-bodied texture and tastes of black licorice and black cherry. With a surprising ripeness of fruit, it ends without tension or nuance.
From a tiny, three-acre vineyard, this wine is soft, seamless and delightfully floral, offering lithe layers of red cherry, tea and oak, barely able to rein in its savory underbrush of black earth. Crisp, the acidity is pronounced and lengthy and the rose aromatics irresistibly persistent.
From a longtime vineyard source, this wine opens with dried herb and menthol aromas. It's exotic on the palate too, with seductive, silky-smooth texture and a tightness of acidity. Black cherry meets black tea and pomegranate, with just the slightest remembrance of cola. Drink now through 2023.
Floral in rose petal, this mouthwatering wine is awash in light beams of watermelon and grapefruit—its soul infinitely crisp. Refreshingly memorable, it sparks in orange and cherry on the finish.
Dense and distinctively earthy, this wine offers ample tannin and oak, that are balanced by full-bodied ripeness. The core of its flavor profile is etched in baked strawberry, forest floor and a meaty tease that's unexpected, but welcome.
Minty fresh and significantly herbal, this is a lighter-styled, stemmy and earthy wine from a longstanding vineyard source that just shines from start to finish. Pomegranate, black cherry and tea combine to delicious effect, giving the wine enough body and soul to remain memorable through the long, tea-stained finish.
This wine is no shrinking violet on the nose, resplendent in fresh roses and strawberry-raspberry. It confounds in its ability to provide huge flavor and personality while retaining a freshness and high level of acidity on the palate. A leathery, savory component speaks quietly amid the suggestions of cinnamon and cigar.
Unctuous and earthy, this medium-bodied wine is more about subtle and savory herb notes than deep fruit. With its light fruit characteristics and bold spice elements, it will make a versatile choice for the table.
Light and earthy, with welcoming aromas of forest floor and black tea, this is a wisp of wine, delicate and soft, lightly spicy and enjoyable. Cherry and raspberry round out its profile, an elegant representation of Russian River Valley Pinot.
Light in color and lilting floral aromas of rose, this is an inviting cool-climate Pinot Noir swirling in equal parts strawberry and spice, subtle and sophisticated.
Here is an austere Pinot Noir that's both elegant and high-toned. The flavors mix black cherry and blueberry, while the finish is blithely earthy and herbal. A nice choice for mealtimes of an equally elegant nature, or an easy lunch of BLTs.
Roberts Road is one of the Sangiacomo family's coolest-climate sites, and it offers light, clear color and deliciously floral notes of violet and rose on the nose. In taste it is earthy and full of dark plum and black cherry, the backbone deeper and darker in mushroom and fresh dirt.
This is a hearty, rich Pinot Noir from the famed Hirsch Vineyard, seductive and silky on the palate with dark, lingering black cherry fruit and layers of exotic spice. A core of earthiness defines the wine, its finish mid-length.
Feral in rustic compost and funk, this wine is flat and green in tone, with dried herb and sage notes forming the core of the palate.
From Atlas Peak sites, this is a dark, brooding wine rich in earthy loam, pomegranate, cranberry and cherry that carries a fistful of weight and power. The oaky finish could use more time to resolve. Drink now through 2020.
This is a robust, full-bodied and sultry wine, one within the producer's single-vineyard series, from a well-known and respected site. Oak and candied black cherry sit atop an abundance of cola spice and earthy truffle, promising more to come as it opens in the glass.
A sleek, medium-bodied wine that's made in large enough numbers to find, it combines black tea, rhubarb and cherry cola around a lengthy, approachable sense of weight.
This is winemaker Ross Cobb's own family project, from extremely cool sites along the Sonoma Coast, including the family's own Coastlands vineyard. Here, with Rice-Spivak, he skirts the edge of ripeness, producing a light, bright wine that's at first hard to penetrate. Faint notes of tart cherry and pomegranate weave through like a fog, a seasoning of allspice on the finish.
A small-production wine from a new producer, this impresses in plush red- and black-cherry, tangy minerality and a refreshing cloud of citrus that gives it buoyancy on the palate. This medium-bodied wine is fresh and alive from start to finish and will be delightful at the table.
Barrel aging in 50% new French oak for 16 months is evident on the nose in this wine, giving it a reduced quality. But with enough time and air it begins to unveil thickets of brambly red and black berry, with a wild raspberry compote component that's quite stunning. Cardamom and pine accent the rest of the palate, which is textured and complex. Drink now through 2023.
This new brand from the folks behind Suacci Carciere is a study in cool-climate austerity and elegance. A tangle of savory herb and Asian spice seasons soft, lean layers of strawberry and pomegranate. Bright and full of verve, it's a food-friendly, complex wine from a producer worth watching.
Exotic Asian spices and moody, brambly black fruit play at the center of this full-bodied vineyard-designate from a high-elevation site. Citrus, fresh-grated nutmeg and bright acidity make for a savory yet completely succulent experience that'll remain memorable long after the bottle is gone.
This exceedingly light wine was given very subtle amounts of oak. It offers a sophisticated take on sassafras and Bing cherry within an earthy, structured shell that imparts a medium-bodied mouthfeel and plenty of acidity. From a site in Sebastopol, it needs time to open in the glass.
Sought-after vineyard grower Charles Heintz has teamed with stellar Sonoma County winemaker Hugh Chappelle (Lynmar, Quivira) to make this divine estate-grown Rosé, pale pink in the glass with hugely inviting floral aromatics. From there is a bolt of electricity, the wine juicy and alive in peach, citrus and strawberry, mouthwatering and light.
Earth, spice and plum combine around a lean frame that's dusty and sublime in this high-acid wine that features a muscular, caramel-laced finish. In balance, this is lovely and food friendly.
Fistfuls of rustic, pungent earth rise out of this silky, complex wine that is sourced from Nobles and Spring Hill vineyards. A sauvage element keeps it dancing on the edge in terms of balance between savory black tea and forest, and crisp, red berry. Smooth and soft, it meets a demure end.
From two very good vineyards—Pahlmeyer's Wayfarer on the extreme Sonoma Coast and Hallberg in Russian River—this stellar wine is juicy, herbal and swimming in delightful acidity. With just enough concentration to give it some strength and structure, it's a nice balance between power and finesse.
This newly released still wine from sparkling specialist Gloria Ferrer is a successful first effort, blending bright cherry, strawberry and tangy blood orange flavors. With an earthy hint of compost and forest, it celebrates the variety in all its glory, upholding its acidity beneath a weight of richness.
From the producer's oldest estate vineyard, planted in 1970, this is lovely in rose petals and baked fruit, offering a powerful density of full-bodied concentration and succulence on the palate. A velvety texture is complemented by a bite of oak and tannin that flirts with grip.
Blue fruit character comes softly layered with exotic clove and cardamom scents in this elegantly light and vibrant wine. Given less time in oak than some of the producer's single-vineyard wines, it's focused and varietal, with a gravelly, complex finish.
From a hilltop location near the ocean-influenced town of Freestone, this wine is silky in plum and dark cherry, a hint of mushroomed earth doing its best to come out. Robust on the palate, juicy berry fruit satisfies, finishing thick and rich.
This warm-climate Pinot Noir appeals to those who prefer density on the palate. Cranberry and tart cherry dominate on the nose, followed by richer elements of strawberry tart, earth and milk chocolate.
This wine is big in tannin, extracted and full bodied, with dense blueberry and maple syrup at its core. For fans of a rich style, it will impress for  its ripe, dark fruit and sizable yet velvety mouthfeel.
From a vineyard that overlooks the wild Marin Coast, with plenty of Pacific Ocean fog, this is an earthy, cool-climate and beguiling wine, speckled in clove, cinnamon and a brightness of wild cherry, raspberry and orange peel. Light and refined, its finish is dusted in pine leaves.
An exceptionally young wine that tastes like bacon and cherry syrup, this offers an overripe, concentrated and thick drink experience.
This marks another stellar vintage of The Traveler, an estate-grown block planted to a suitcase clone that seems to have found a happy place in Fort Ross-Seaview. Dark cherry and strawberry jump out of the glass, around a core of lush, spicy and decadent chocolate swirls. Buoyant in acidity, this is a gorgeous Pinot with lilting traces of orange and cranberry on the finish.
This might be one of the best values on the market, given the quality. Equal parts pretty and funky, it's a tightly wound, savory, fruity wine that's elegant and compelling. The tannins and oak are lightly imprinted around strawberry-rhubarb and fresh-cut rose, and the texture seductively silky. This is a delicious treat of a wine that should also age.
Opening with earth and herb, much like its companion vineyard-designated Bucher Vineyard Pinot, this wine is lean on the midpalate but builds character and strength as it goes, and is delightfully measured in tart cherry with memorable subtlety.
This is a pretty impressive wine being offered for an almost unheard-of price, the fruit sourced largely from Russian River Valley and the Sonoma Coast. Cardamom and cinnamon figure in, with a lightness of body and high-toned strawberry and cherry belying an underlying richness that'll satisfy.
There's an inkling of floral character on the nose of this otherwise robust, brooding and brawny vineyard-designate. It's overwhelmed by grippy tannins and a bitterness akin to tobacco. Along the way dark cherry and forest earth make an appearance—particularly pine and a whiff of tar.
This wine was given quite a bit of time in bottle. It offers cranberry, olive and a sanguine touch of dried cherry. Medium in weight and oak, it finishes with tart acidity.
McManis excels at making good wines at competitive prices and this is a prime example. It's smooth, easy-drinking Pinot Noir, with cherry-vanilla layers from start to finish. Pair with roast chicken, turkey meat loaf or simple burgers; a nice quaff at a nice price.
Lightly textured, this is an ethereal and sublime wine. Dark brick red in color but feathery on the palate, it offes earthy cherry around a core of subtle spice.
From a newish, small producer that's worth keeping an eye on, this wine is earthy and slightly cloudy, balanced in nature. Wild strawberry and cranberry are pitted smoothly against firm, medium-bodied tannins and oak. The finish is crisp and juicy.
This wine is made entirely from the Martini clone of the variety, a heritage clone that imparts a lovely perfume of raspberry and rose that's hard to resist. Moderately spicy cola seasons a voluptuous midpalate that fills with length as the wine develops, never letting go of its unshakeable prettiness.
This lush wine offers true value, deeply flavored in strawberry and cherry. A tannic foundation supports the fruit beside black tea, clove and a twist of orange and cranberry, with a soft and smooth texture.
Smoky tar and oak meet baked huckleberry in this soft, textured and lengthy wine from this great family of grape growers. Moderate acidity allows for a ripe, full-bodied expression of the variety.
There's a reduced, bitter quality to this wine, which remains light-bodied and somewhat elusive in the glass. An extreme sense of earthiness and mushroom, veering on dampness, keeps it a sensory quandary.
Fresh and lean as a sea breeze and tautly wrought in tense acidity, this memorable wine is bright and crisp. The palate shows earthy flavors met by subtle notes of black cherry and strawberry.
With a sniff of noble reduction, this is a well-made robust wine, indicative of its historic estate and small-production values. A juicy core of broad plum, dark cherry and pomegranate wrap seamlessly around a fresh streak of minerality and rich texture.
This inviting Pinot is broadly ripe and fully lush in earthy, spicy layers, dark cherry and plum that plays across the palate. With a long, substantial finish, iot suits pork roasts and bacon-wrapped scallops.
Cherry spice and earthy compost meet in this well-made, full-bodied wine from a warm vintage. Despite its density and concentration, it's freshened by bright acidity and a streak of cinnamon cola that lasts into the finish.
Edwards has worked with this Laguna Ridge site for decades and her intimate understanding of it shows. Rose petals ride a voluptuous texture and concentrated notes of chocolate, caramel and black cherry; it's as savory as it is buoyant and floral. Still holding on to a wealth of tannin and body, it will cellar well despite being delicious and enjoyable today.
From four acres at the crest of a knoll onsite, this wine is indelibly crisp in cranberry and orange. It's structured and classy, with a zesty acidity that belies the darker, deeper elements of toasted oak and Asian spice. The tannins are there, but subtle and supportive, resulting in a pretty yet substantive selection.
From the producer's Sebastopol Hills hillside vineyard, this is a perfumy, elegant wine, a combination of lavender and roses with sizable tannins and a backbone of acidity. Dark black fruit and game swirl together with a complex addition of dried herb and violet. This is a lovely wine now, but will benefit from further cellaring through 2023.
A warmth of baking spices like cardamom and nutmeg charge an otherwise earthy, herbal wine. It's light bodied yet complex, crisp in strawberry and black cherry flavors. Only the third vintage produced from this particular site, it's subtly ripe and lengthy in texture.
Earthy compost and forest vie for attention in this full-bodied, lush wine that's lightly spiced with clove. Cranberry, strawberry and a hint of leather round out the experience.
A very earthy Pinot Noir from the gorgeous Oppenlander Vineyard. The wine—from mostly Pommard clones—is a heady mix of aromatic mushrooms growing in dirt and bright cherry-strawberry notes, finished by a lilting lift of rose petal and supple spice. An elegant wine that would be tempting to drink early and often.
This Pinot Noir opens with a soft intensity of raspberry liqueur and cherry tart with a sprinkling of orange peel. Unfined and unfiltered, it's subdued and structured, an intriguing example of the dual power and finesse behind Morning Dew Ranch, Burt Williams's vineyard in Philo.
Made in a balanced, light-bodied style, this wine is rustic in its earthiness, with aromas of compost and a forest full of mushrooms. Subtle black pepper, mint and cinnamon season mild layers of cherry, raspberry and strawberry.
Sagebrush and forest floor are met by strong flavors of cola and cardamom in this somewhat flat, forcefully ripe and full-bodied wine. Asian spice continues to ride a layer of black cherry and berry through the moderate finish.
Light in color and soft in the glass, this well-built wine is bursting in red berry and cherry, with aromas of violet and oak and a finish laced in cherry-vanilla. Structured and finessed, it's impressive for hearty pairings like pork or game,
This is a blend of three vineyard sites important in other designated bottlings: Cider Ridge, Burnside and Sexton. Floral, with a pretty nose, it opens in spicy clove with a meaty texture, ultimately showing as dark, brooding and savory, as spicy in white pepper as driven by acidity. It has tannin and weight, yet remains fresh and lively in the glass.
Raspberry liqueur and orange-cranberry flavors combine effortlessly in this beautifully made, refined wine. It's bright in acidity while offering a dense body and youthful oak tones. Black tea, cola, plum and streaks of freshly tilled earth make it memorable on the palate, accented by rose petals and cranberry.
This new offering, made by Ross Cobb and Katy Wilson, is intended as a “best of the west.” Sourced from several vineyards, it reveals true coastal qualities, with ethereal earthiness and an Old World sensibility. Cloudy in the glass, it shows cranberry, orange, bay leaf and tea flavors as it unwinds.
This wine was sourced from three vineyards along the West Sonoma Coast, from as far north as Annapolis and as far south as Sebastopol. Cranberry, raspberry and dark earth are on offer around a lilting, soft texture and medium-toned body. On the finish, expect black tea and minty herb, the acidity providing crispness.
From a vineyard block planted in 1990, this wine is distinguished by an earthy forest-floor characteristic, along with smoky oak and bacon, especially on the entry. Ripe dark cherry and spice entice on the finish, which is tingling in acidity and firm tannins.
Mushroom and kirsch show through a wall of oak and thick tannin. This wine is still compressed and concentrated in flavor, with tea and tobacco providing a bittersweet end.
A light yet concentrated Pinot Noir, this has a cherry flavor and a spicy texture. Give it some air to allow the better side of its earthy aromas time to unravel.
This dry-farmed property produces concentrated grapes. Particularly in this vintage, it offers burly, tannin-laced fruit with a tendency to brood. Soft and velvety on the palate, it veers into tangy, oaky and spicy finishing touches.
One of the producer's lighter-styled wines, delicately delicious, this shows forest floor, orange and lemon in a brightly crisp, high-toned package of polish and grace. A touch of rhubarb--strawberry compote lurks on the finish.
A whiff of smoky campfire opens this wine, followed by an unlikely counterpoint of lavender. Notes of black cherry and strawberry then unfurl, along with plenty of earthy mushroom and forest floor. The wine reveals a tension of weight and body as it evolves in the glass, with a bite of tannin on the finish. Let it open a bit.
There's an intensely rustic earthiness to this wine, complemented by white pepper and nutmeg. Medium bodied, it also offers sizzling acidity and tart red cherry. Lithe, it builds toward a robust, ripe end. Cellar through 2017–2020 or give it a few swirls before enjoying.
Damp earth, forest floor and huckleberry pie combine for a complex take on the variety, building texture and body on the palate as it goes. Relatively full bodied, it comes off as lighter and smoother than perhaps it is, revealing denser, more structured heft on the finish.
This is a restrained and structured wine, light in tart cranberry, rhubarb and an overwhelming attraction of baked plum. Lush and plush on the palate without ever pushing too far, it lingers in cardamom.
From a cool spot planted within classic Goldridge soils, this wine opens with smoky graham cracker and soft red and blue berry fruit. Black tea and clove speak to its site, providing intriguingly exotic and savory undertones that meld well with the fruit and oak. Still young, the wine needs to open for full effect.
This is minty and light, with a soft texture and red cherry tones. The finish turns overtly earthy, even barnyard-like.
Flat and mildly spicy, this is a light-bodied, fleshy red that offers moderately ripe layers of cherry, raspberry and vanilla.
This simple wine has juicy blueberry and baked cherry flavors at its core, a lushness on the palate that is supported by firm tannins and oak.
Tar, baked blackberry and dusty, smoked oak define this full-bodied, 100% varietal wine that was aged in French oak, 85% of it new. The wood provides depth and breadth around velvety layers of juicy black-cherry pie and vanilla.
From the producer's Annapolis vineyard, planted at 700 to 900 feet, this is a floral, spicy and high-toned wine. It shows pomegranate, plum and a noticeable streak of forest among its highlights, the tannins integrated and kept fresh and structured by the acidity.
Grown in Green Valley, this medium-bodied wine offers heady Asian spices seasoned over tart, tangy orange and cherry. Pretty aromatics ride shotgun over a depth of earth and soft tannin and smoky oak, the wine ultimately plush and lush.
Lush and velvety, this wine offers big, dark cherry flavor around a tangy minerality. From three vineyard blocks planted to Pommard and Swan clones, it balances opposites in the way full-bodied luxuriousness meets acidity-driven juiciness, creating a desire for more. Let this wine open in the glass or cellar through 2023.
Adastra is an organically farmed vineyard and the wine shows an earthy profile that's substantial and defining. Full bodied and ripe, it rides a tension of acidity that provides freshness, seasoned in tart cherry and pomegranate.
Light in color, this sparkling wine is somewhat diluted in flavor, coming off as slightly sweet, with a nutty metallic edge to it.
This is a delicious expression of the genre, medium bodied and forcefully crisp, with delicate lacings of cherry, apricot and peach. The underlying hint of vanilla gives it a welcome succulence and touch of sweetness though the wine otherwise presents dry.
Light bodied and just ripe, this is a delightfully crisp, refreshing expression of the variety. Stainless steel fermentation preserves its core of candied orange and strawberry flavor.
Thick tannins gird the powerful fruit in this wine—a mix of red cherry and strawberry that mellows with time in the glass. Toasted oak and baking spice touches provide additional context and pleasure.
The bouquet of this earthy, aromatic vineyard-designate wine is bursting with freshly picked wildflowers and earth. The palate is mouthwatering in blueberry, strawberry and a bite of sour cherry. Lively acidity keeps the proceedings on a hair-raising ride, before diving headfirst into a long finish of bacon and dark chocolate.
A wine that begs for time in the bottle, it stubbornly reveals bold, brawny and rich notes of black cherry, coffee and black pepper, girded by a strong presence of dark chocolate. Amid the black cherry are accompanying flavors of brambly blackberry and a suggestion of savory cranberry, all integrating with the tannins. Cellar through 2022.
Densely delicious, this is earthy in a forest floor kind of way—it's explosive in black cherry, plum and compelling, exotic spice. Medium bodied and lushly layered, it's persistent on the palate, brooding in ripe fruit yet buoyed by ample acidity.
This is an intriguingly light, lean and savory wine, true to its extreme Sonoma Coast provenance. The color and texture tip one off to its ethereal nature, a blend of shy cranberry, rhubarb and exotic spice. The long finish highlights the flavors and freshness.
This is a refined and restrained Pinot from a reputable grape grower who has successfully made the transition to winemaker. Raspberry, cherry-vanilla and rhubarb interplay seamlessly, teasing with a taste of decadence and silky tannins. The finish offers highlights of orange zest and clove.
In this silky and seductive wine, integrated oak and tannin wrap around lilting waves of earth and rose petal, providing plenty of sensory intrigue. From several vineyards, including Wohler, it shines a light on the subtleties that can be coaxed from the appellation, along with a spectacular exuberance.
Made from both grapes directly pressed into wine as well as bled off, this crisply complex offering is springtime in a glass, a soft and supple evoking of fresh-cut pineapple that remains dry and delicious without ever overreaching. Medium in body, with a hint of dried herb on the back palate, it offers structure and just the right amount of weight.
Herbal mint and strawberry counterbalance the density of oak and tannin that is the foundation of this wine. It hails from a handful of marquee vineyard sites, including Mardikian Estate, one of the producer's vineyard-designates. Right out the gate, it's a well-integrated tightrope of spicy fruit and acidity, with a tease of blueberry and cedar.
Klopp is a mix of California and Burgundy clones, one of the producer's finest offerings every year, made in an opulent, balanced style. Lush layers of strawberry and cherry are surrounded by truffle-like dirt. The wine is concentrated in tannin and subtle oak, while anise marks the measured finish. The wine will benefit from time in the cellar through 2020.
Rich and layered, this impressive wine is memorable in its full grasp of cherry grenadine and cola, the succulent flavors spiked in spicy clove. On the lengthy finish, it takes on a blueberry note that's welcome in its balance of sweet and sour.
Velvety, with a touch of grit, this wine is tart and tangy in acidity, with a firmness of structure and tannin. The boldly interwoven flavors are defined by wild strawberry, cranberry and black tea.
Oaky, slightly sweet and otherwise exhibiting rich tones of dirt and earth, this is soft in tannins and texture, the finish unveiling power.
The fourth vintage of the BCD Estate, this offers high acidity around a core of ripe cherry fruit and earthy, pastoral overtones, the tannins nicely managed.
From a former Gravenstein apple orchard, this Pinot is intense in white pepper and cherry pit, and not unlike the skin of an apple. The zesty acidity sizzles on the palate.
Baked bread and compost aromas compete with oak toastiness and ripe dark cherry in this wine, which veers into an almost liqueur-like density.
Goldridge honors the soil series so important in the appellation, offering floral aromas that lead into silky-smooth texture with tension. Earthy, it conjures notions of fresh-picked strawberry, black tea and kirsch, with an approachability that doesn't distract from its complexity.
An estate-grown vineyard-designate, this impressive offering is smooth in cherry, berry and clove, with wisps of black pepper dancing around its edges. The finish is long and spicy. It's complex yet fun, and will do well at the table though it's also easy enough to enjoy on its own.
This wine astounds in big, juicy waves of jammy cherry, strawberry and forest floor, its fruit sourced from Gap's Crown, Dutton Ranch, Goldrock Ridge and Jenkins vineyards, among other sites. Textured and layered, with powerful force, it shows richness and concentration but also fresh acidity.
Earthy baked cherry and a strong streak of cardamom make for an impressive entry to this wine, flavors that persist on the palate. Beautifully rich without being ridiculous, it finds balance in complex, layered textures and nuanced characteristics, with a length of rose petals on the finish.
Kathleen Inman has gained such a following with her Rosé that she's given it a special designation, a nod to her happy marriage. Made in a direct-press style, the dry, refreshing wine is light salmon in color and marked by aromatic grapefruit and strawberry, mouthfilling and juicy as a slice of watermelon in summer.
Smoky and minty, this full-bodied effort shows grit and oak, with tannin on the back of the palate. That grittiness continues in a gravelly way in texture, rounded by strawberry and black tea.
A vineyard source since 2004, this Chenoweth is earthy and distinctly intense, rich and robust in blackberry and black cherry with strong elements of black pepper and cinnamon. The acidity is balanced and veering on mineral, with subtle oak on the finish and a rewarding touch of dark chocolate. The density of the tannins suggest further cellaring, through 2020.
Light, clear and varietal, this wine is pungent in earth, chocolate, black tea and leather, medium- to full-bodied with remarkable offerings of sage, rosemary and savory mushroom. Cherry and cinnamon add to the intrigue and flavor.
Muted aromatically, the wine is still generous in bright red fruit flavors, mostly strawberry-rhubarb and savory pomegranate, with accompanying layers of allspice. On the midpalate is the suggestion of vanilla before the finish delves into herbal, slightly sour territory.
Within an enclave of adored cool-climate vineyard sites, just under five miles from the ocean, Taylor Ridge is planted to the Swan clone of Pinot Noir. In this bottling, the culmination of site and Swan comes together in complex, savory ways. Burnt orange meets blackberry tart in a brooding, tightly gripped wine that manages to hold on to a thicket of acidity, giving it balance and brightness.
The producer's smallest-production red from the vintage, and its fourth bottling from the east-sloping blocks of its estate vineyard, this wine is full and lush on the palate, yet elegantly crafted to reveal pine forest, grenadine and a persistence of floral and herbal notes. Smooth and integrated, it presents a rose garden's worth of beauty that lingers on the finish.
Winemaker Gavin Chanin's co-effort with Durell owner Bill Price aims to show vibrancy and freshness of fruit and succeeds on both counts in this light-bodied, complex wine. Clove, rich, dark cherry and bright acidity combine for a fresh take on a typically voluptuous vineyard, finding the layers of rocky minerality that lie beneath.
Planted in 2006, this vineyard is one of the newer sites for the “Queen of Pinot,” who coaxes a strong-willed, high-strung complement of charcuterie and wild lavender from its vines. Bright red currant and raspberry are met by floral, herbal competition, which vies for attention on the palate, girded by strong tannins and mellow oak.
From one of the producer's older vineyard sites, fully mature and steady, this wine shines in cranberry, rhubarb and strawberry before finding richer, riper streaks of blueberry and blackberry. Generous tannin is seasoned by layers of piquant cinnamon and vanilla. It's lush and bold.
A light, ethereal quality ignites this wine's compelling high-toned acidity and subtle, integrated oak. Juicy orange and cranberry form its core, as roses permeate the nose. The texture is silky smooth and inviting.
Perfumed in rose, this wine from the higher elevations of the appellation is a study in understated freshness and stony mineral, offering too a thickness of cassis. Big oak asserts itself on the finish, with a streak of tart citrus adding to the intrigue.
Made from two vineyards, Windsor Oaks and Rockin'B, this wine offers delightfully floral aromas of rose petal and grenadine syrup before expressing a fuller-bodied structure of tannin and oak. Still, it finishes lean in black cherry and plum.
Tight-grained tannin wraps around a firmness of oak and high acidity in this brawny, full-bodied wine. The fruit comes baked, like a strawberry-rhubarb pie, seasoned in cinnamon.
Aromatically elusive at first, with good, clear color, this wine then reveals dots of cranberry and cherry that give way to a crowd-pleasing juiciness that makes it approachable and likable with food. It veers into cola vanilla on the finish.
Rustic on the nose, this is an earthy, herb-filled wine made in a robust style, juicy and exhibiting glassfuls of rhubarb and black tea. Integrated in terms of oak and tannin, it's youthful and may need some time to grow.
A bitter streak of herbal tea seasons a tight grip of tannin in this mountainous wine, structured and burly in wild sage and black cherry. A smoky undercurrent adds intrigue and savory, meaty notes that should be paired with appropriately hearty fare.
Since this is the winery's largest production Pinot, but still under 1,000 cases, buyers actually have a chance of finding this full-bodied beauty. Sly on the nose, it is tense in toasty oak and chewy cherry, venturing into black cherry, blackberry and root beer. It's amply structured and robust, yet with silky tannins. Enjoy through 2022.
The winery's second vintage from this site, Calegari is medium-weight, with structured oak and a silky palate. It's a ripe expression of anise and red cherry that's juicy, spicy and complex, with pretty violet aromas.
Initially, this wine is all about strawberry tart, with layers of cardamom and white pepper as well as hints of blueberry and blackberry on the back palate. Offering high-toned fruit and acidity, it settles on the finish, becoming rich and full bodied in style, with final notes of nutmeg, vanilla and chocolate.
Stemmy in earthy pine and clove-like spice, this is a powerfully dense and delicious wine. It's on the higher side in terms of alcohol, though doesn't reflect it in bouquet or taste. Savory dark berry wraps itself around mushroomy truffles and black tea to linger on the tongue through a lengthy, weighty finish.
One of the producer's larger-production offerings, this wine nonetheless speaks to meticulous attention in the vineyard and cellar, with velvety smoothness to the palate and savory elements of earthy mushroom. Nuanced, it ends in rose petals and black tea, with firm, crisp acidity throughout, all at an almost unheard-of price for the quality.
This wine drinks qualitatively above and behind its low price, delivering light, clear color and tangy wisps of cranberry and citrus-tinged minerality. With a depth of character that builds on the midpalate, it finishes lean and crisp, a wonderfully elegant expression of the variety.
This is a thin, light-bodied wine, showy in deep, dark berry and cherry. Around its fruity edges, robust oak and tree bark are softened in black tea.
A funky earthiness characterizes this wine from the get-go, an ethereal mix of dirt and forest floor that's hard to shake, yet interesting. Red cherry and raspberry come into play later on the palate, giving the wine a juicy ripeness.
There's a reduced, concentrated effect to this wine, a bold expression of the variety rich in tobacco and black tea, the fruit bittersweet and elusive. Tightly wound, it benefits from air and time in the glass, and will please a Cabernet lover's palate most of all.
Juicy, thick and satisfying, this appellation wine is rich in red licorice and dark cherry with an expansiveness on the palate that impresses and lingers around a deft cradling of integrated oak.
A barrel selection from estate-grown grapes, this Pinot succeeds in rich red raspberry and an offering of strawberry-rhubarb pie, the texture velvety smooth. The oak builds through the finish, providing ample body and substance, yet the wine stays light and lilting on the palate, inviting one in for more.
Earthy and spicy, this is classic cool-climate, coastal Pinot, with a whole-cluster mentality and depth of complex flavor and texture. Tart pomegranate and cranberry combine for a light-hearted approach to the vintage, with herbal accents that reach far across the soulful finish.
With plenty of estate-farmed vineyards, this producer is diving deeper into single blocks and clones with its 2012 releases, providing the opportunity to hone in on an array of tastes. Deer Gate is relatively warm, and the resulting fruit is quite ripe, yielding bold red and black cherry notes around savory dried herb and oak accents.
This is a forceful and powerful wine from a vineyard site in the producer's portfolio since 2005. Broad-shouldered, it offers juicy strawberry and pomegranate expressive of a ripe, picture-perfect vintage. It also manages to retain a pretty, floral characteristic and a depth of dried herb, clove and peppery spice, particularly on the finish.
Made in a méthode Champenoise style, this is crafted from estate-grown fruit, the color crimson pink, the flavors high-toned strawberry and fresh citrus. Light on its feet and dry, it features bubbles that form a rich mousse counterpointed by crisp natural acidity. On the finish is the suggestion of fennel.
OGV is the winery's estate vineyard, planted to several Pinot Noir clones. Made to age, it is light in color and elegant, depths of rhubarb and raspberry playing off each other to offer shades of savory and sweet. Earthy and mildly spicy, the wine's exotic nature and marathon finish should come hither even more forcefully with cellar time; try 2017–2021.
Dark and spicy this silky, supple Pinot Noir is richly restrained in a freshness of boysenberry and the aromatics of a forest floor. But it's the exotic cola spice that'll hook you in and keep you there, particularly piquant on the finish.
Fresh in tart strawberry, this Brice Jones' release hails from a vineyard 950 feet above the town of Annapolis, which is very near the coast. Its profile reflects its provenance, an earthy spiciness buoyed by tingling acidity and lengthy, leathery finish.
Nutmeg, allspice and chestnuts provide a warmth and sense of hearth to this robust, full-bodied wine, from a special site in the heart of Santa Rosa. Candied cherry dominates on the palate, the wine bright yet sultry, with a healthy, generous body and length.
Ripe in dense black cherry, this wine has a pleasant juiciness that keeps it balanced in the glass. A firmness of acidity supports the well-integrated tannins and lithe fruit, while the finish brings a swirl of cinnamon-cola and vanilla.
Another longtime standout for Williams Selyem, Allen Vineyard fruit imparts textural subtleties and a wealth of minerality and freshness. Citrus-driven in its cranberry and orange flavors, it shows depth and complexity, accented by lively thyme and clove notes.
From an organic, dry farmed vineyard, this wine is as feral as the forest—a study in wild boar, wildflowers and dried herbs. Bright acidity buoys that meaty quality in the form of tart rhubarb and strawberry tea flavors. Floral on the nose and palate, it's spicy too, with bold seasonings of clove and pepper.
From a Westside Road-adjacent vineyard in the heart of the northern Middle Reach, Flax is rocky and the vines a decade old. Expect luxurious power and a velvety mouthfeel from this wine, its black tea, pomegranate and rhubarb flavors brushed with allspice, sage and cola.
Smoky clove and rose petal aromas underlie a delicately complex fruitiness in this wine, its cranberry and pomegranate flavors complemented by cardamon, dried herb and savory black tea. Light-bodied and fresh, it offers an indelible silkiness on the palate.
Full and plush on the palate, this wine shines in spicy red and black cherry, offering both a juicy core and sculpted texture. Finishing long, it retains a freshness of acidity, fine tannin and seamless oak. A dark, earthy expression of the grape with a twist of spice.
From a bleed of Pinot Noir that is fermented in stainless steel and then aged in both neutral French oak and stainless steel, this dry wine tastes of cherry, plum and crisp apple. Meaty in weight and body, it makes a nice companion for the table.
Raspberry crumble immediately comes to mind in this vineyard-designate, a luxuriously built, big-bodied expression of a warm, easy vintage. A nose of violet keeps it from getting overly rambunctious around the heartier aspects of cranberry, crushed rose petals and cherry cola.
Another of the producer's single-vineyard designates, estate-farmed, this is mushroomy and rich in forest floor, with a juicy-savory complement of spicy acidity and stemmy, tart fruit.
Made in tiny amounts in a light-bodied style, its vineyard site in the cool Petaluma Gap, this wine opens in earthy soapstone and sandalwood, offering an aroma of dried flowers. Delicate acidity supports a funkiness of cranberry, rhubarb and nutmeg, while a suggestion of roses lurks in the background.
Lush and full-bodied layers of velvety texture support firm flavors of baked cherry, pomegranate, pine forest and earth, a vibrant current of acidity bursting beneath. Layers of tannin provide a hearty mouthfeel and sense of density, signaling a robust vintage.
This is a high-toned, structured wine with vibrant acidity that is layered in earth, spice, raspberry and black tea. After a medium-sized weight to the midpalate, it finishes soft and round.
This is a spicy, wooded, thick and dense varietal wine. The palate is medium bodied, with bold boysenberry and black berry fruits that mingle with a seam of lifting citrusy acidity. It's an approachable and tasty crowd-pleaser that'll impress.
From a multi-aspected, redwood-surrounded site with peeks of the Pacific Ocean, Stuller traffics in aromas of baked bread and strawberry preserves, its acidity high-toned and full of freshness. Still young and looking for further development in the glass, it's savory and soft, aged in once-to-four-times used French oak.
Bright, floral and intriguingly juicy, it reveals incredible brightness, all red cherry with hints of lavender and violet. Remarkably low in alcohol, (12.9%) it nonetheless tastes fully formed, mid-weight with a touch of oak on the finish, a testament to incredible raw ingredients and respectful winemaking.
Baking spice wraps around sizzling acidity in this well-made, full-bodied red from the heart of the appellation's Westside Road. Dark fruit is represented within a stemmy, brooding and slightly carbonic texture that's complex and rewarding.
This light-bodied wine is unfussy in its approach, with svelte notions of roses and lavender. Earthy black tea and cherry commingle nicely as the texture remains smoothly approachable.
There's no doubt this estate-grown wine is at first funky on the nose, a mix of forest, mint and farmhouse cheese. It develops in the glass to embrace its quirks, complementing them with vibrant acidity, ripe texture, and hints of orange, rhubarb and spicy clove.
From a cool Forestville vineyard once devoted to apples, Appian Way is rich in Goldridge soils, providing a happy home to these grapes that offer a core of pomegranate and cranberry, laced in black tea. Light bodied without being wimpy, the wine is complex and velvety, finishing in nutmeg and ginger.
Stemmy earth and dark, savory pine give in to sautéed mushroom and cinnamon in this lean, soft and delicious estate-grown wine. A tension of acidity buoys a backdrop of wild strawberry and cranberry on the palate, ending with just the right amount of weight and length, succulent to the end.
A deliciously light, bright wine that hits the mark year after year, this cool-climate offering is fresh in zingy acidity and juicy flavors of grapefruit, strawberry and lime. The acidity buoys the experience from first sip to last, backed by enough body to remain in balance. This wine is fermented like a white wine without skin or seed contact.
Phillips Hill's Two Terroirs is very subtly marked “AV + MR,” signaling that the fruit was sourced from both the cool Anderson Valley and even cooler Mendocino Ridge. It's lightly earthy and resplendent in bright, just-ripe cherry tones. Gorgeously crisp, with undeniable structure, this is ready to drink, but it would also shine in a few years time.
This inaugural vintage of Monastery shows a complex intermingling of herb and briny cheese rind along with soft and generous Asian spice and brambly blackberries. The savory characteristics persist into black tea and subtle black pepper, all the while accented by just-bloomed rose.
This is the winery's first Kanzler Vineyard Pinot Noir and its only Sonoma Coast appellation Pinot. The cool-climate vineyard offers ripe cherry and plum around a core of firm, velvety tannins. From there, vibrant cranberry and rhubarb flirt with black tea, while red apple, sage and sandalwood notes round out the flavors on the long finish.
From a vineyard within what locals call the Petaluma Gap, a cool area duly influenced by Pacific Ocean fog, this wine is intense in berry and bright, lush, spicy layers indicative of its cooler leanings. Pleasing, with clove and black tea between the fruit, it's approachable and impressive.
Wafting baked bread aromas create a warm, inviting entry in this wine, which reveals medium-bodied layers of tart, tangy citrus, cranberry and pomegranate as it opens. High-toned yet deep, it offers balance and complexity and lingers on the finish.
Big tannin and burly toasted oak make for a full-bodied, robust entry into this concentrated wine. It offers an undeniable hit of Dr. Pepper and wild mushrooms grown on a forest floor.
This producer continues to up its game with this brand. This wine offers a smoky, luxurious experience defined by black-cherry spice, smoky oak and a thickness of chocolate. Textured and full bodied, it's made for fans of a richer, more concentrated style.
Light and ethereal in color, this vineyard-designated wine has a thinness. It's also marked by a funky herbal taste that can best be described as bouquet garni, but especially sage, veering into tomato leaf.
This oddly perfumed and quite tannic wine is hard to decipher in terms of fruit. It remains light bodied amid the grip.
Menthol and eucalyptus dominate over the indistinguishable fruit in this full-bodied, thick wine.
A wispy Mendocino Pinot Noir, this lacks depth and finesse. It has undertones of currant and cherry, and a wham-bam finish.
Woody and herbal, this full-bodied robust wine is approachably thick and round, with distinct characteristics of forest floor, mushroom and black tea.
Earthy mushroom and (no joke) smoke, entertain a simple layering of robust strawberry, raspberry and vanilla in this ripe wine.
From both Sun Chase and Gap's Crown vineyards, two stellar sites that neighbor one another, this is a medium-bodied expression of high-toned pomegranate and cherry. It unleashes big, soft waves of intense flavor and texture expansively and with panache.
From an 850-foot-elevation site four miles from the ocean, this offers a depth of dark cherry and Asian spice, lightly bodied and textured. It delivers a hit of bittersweet chocolate on the tangy finish, with an intriguing streak of charcuterie that's hard to shake.
Spearmint and pine resin stand out in this simple, light-bodied red that traffics subtly in spice and tannin, not quite finding its balance.
From a vineyard that's less than one acre in size, this special bottling is tiny but mighty, juicy in blue and red fruit. Robust in spice, it unleashes a velvety texture with ease, allowing room for focused tannin to be supportive rather than distracting. The finish retains a welcome freshness.
Spicy acidity wraps around a lengthy and intense experience of full-bodied concentration and power in this well-made wine. Forest pine, red cherry and vanilla combine effortlessly to provide a robust flavor profile that's memorable and rich.
The soft delicacy to this wine is compelling, inviting and surprising, given the power of the vintage and the relative warmth of the vineyard site in the appellation's Middle Reach. Floral with rose, it's deceptively fruity, hiding its depth of black cherry and citrus to the end.
A new luxury tier from Mendocino Wine Company, the folks who also produce the Parducci wines, Moniker Pinot is softly aromatic, leathery in dark berry fruit and dry, made in a big, rich style. Fruit is sourced from Anderson Valley, and also from inland Potter and Redwood valleys.
Rustic, dark and deeply tannic, this wine is sourced from the Oak Knoll District of the Napa Valley, known for relatively cooler-climate varieties, though not necessarily Pinot Noir. It dances in dark plum and leather, finishing short.
This is a sultry, leathery and sinewy wine, dark in tannin and oak and a full-bodied ripeness of dense fruit that delves into savory Asian spice. Powerful, it combines a wealth of clones to good effect, aging for 17 months in new French oak, 83% of it new.
A delicate expression of power and beauty, this conveys kirsch cherry, wet stone and high-toned minerality. Round and easy to love, it offers a subtle streak of tannin and tight, integrated oak, finishing in dark chocolate and orange.
This tightly wound wine opens in the glass, with intense, bright acidity that wraps around herbal, minty undertones. Blackberry, raspberry and clove give it plenty of varietal classicism, but it's the strong earthy loam and forest floor that provide intrigue and elegance.
One of the producer's native-fermentation wines, this was given 25% whole-cluster fermentation and one-third new oak. The wine blends grapes from the Devoto Garden and Skikos vineyards, combining them into light, clear color with a twist of pine resin. Juicy in acidity, it offers complexity and balance.
This light, clear wine is varietal in approach and silky texture, also offering a tension of high acidity, forest floor and nervy, cool-climate fruit. From a vineyard overlooking Freestone, it speaks to site and taste with classy effectiveness.
Jolly Rancher-red in color, there's high-toned grapefruit and watermelon in this Rosé. Layers of tropical juiciness on the back of the tongue and a nice finish make this a refreshing wine before, during or after dinner.
Interesting components of rural earth, mushroom, plum, dark cherry and cola spice play off each other in this robust, full-bodied Pinot, from the growers of Toboni Vineyards.
Oaky and dense, this wine is sourced from the Nunes Vineyard, a fine site in the heart of the appellation. Raspberry and blueberry jam sway between a juicy midpalate, integrated with the oak and yet toasty, before boasting a vanilla-cherry finish.
Earthy funk and black tea surround dampened mushrooms, giving this wine a feral quality before a lift of red rhubarb and strawberry pie provide juicy succulence. Cola and vanilla make appearances toward the finish, which builds in intensity of oak.
From the producer's estate vineyard, adjacent to a successful dairy farm it also runs, this tiny offering comes from four specific blocks across the property, and is a seductive, juicy, well-composed wine. Lush and oaky, it conveys a density of forest floor, complemented by raspberry and strawberry, before finishing robustly in spice and mushroom.
This brushy, foresty wine offers big, ripe blackberry and cherry flavor around a smoky core of oak.
This is an estate-grown wine from a vineyard planted to three clones. It has an air of forested truffle, pine and cinnamon within a stemmy and somewhat unresolved body of medium weight.
Light in color and body, this restrained, classically styled red is tart in fruit character and acidity, with a thickness of concentration that surprises. A hint of reductive oak meanders through.
This wine has a light delicacy that provides an ethereal quality to its wispy layers of wild strawberry, dried herb and spearmint. Bright and crisp, it finishes smoothly with buoyant acidity.
Strawberry, vanilla and smoke overlay deep blue fruit in this seamless, velvety wine. Light-bodied, it wields vibrant acidity and moderate, spicy highlights.
Soft, supple and mouth-coating, this wine dances in cola, forest floor and subtle red and black berry, building power and concentration as it goes. Already given time in bottle, it's ready to enjoy now.
This lovely Pinot Noir has an appealing baked crust quality with structured, firm tannins and ripe cherry goodness all around. From the steep, 900-foot-elevation Wentzel Vineyard, it exudes robust fruit flavor and layers of just-right spice.
Silky and voluptuous, Gowan Creek is Goldeneye's larger production Anderson Valley Pinot Noir. Still a barrel selection of its best lots, the wine is made from fruit that's heavily scrutinized before fermentation. A powerful Pinot that retains the acidity and earthiness of the variety, with streaks of ripe fruit throughout.
This native fermentation, unfiltered wine employs 25% whole-cluster and a low amount of new French oak. It's light and clear in color with a concentrated hit of mint, eucalyptus and pine around a strength of strawberry and vanilla, gently nested in oak. It opens slowly in the glass.
A generously fruity, just-ripe and refined wine, this offers classic notions of the appellation in a warm, welcoming vintage, from rhubarb, cranberry and cherry to cola spice and clove. Still young, it shows an intensity that should meld and mellow in the bottle in short order.
Plummy and tight, this wine comes from the Green Valley section of the Russian River Valley. Youthful, it hints at fierce acidity around delicately woven specks of mint, pine forest, rhubarb and clove. In the background, the region's classic cola cherry characteristic shows as well. Drink now through 2021.
From a selection of vineyard sites and clones, this wine offers juicy acidity behind a wave of plummy red and black cherry, an earthy foundation keeping things real. Oak and tannins are well integrated, and plenty of clove flavor make for a spicy finish. This gets extra attention for the awesome label.
Medium-sized in build and body, this affordable wine offers dark cherry and hearty tannin amidst a fistful of earth and gravelly texture.
From a bleed of Pinot Noir that is fermented in stainless steel and then aged in both neutral French oak and stainless steel, this dry wine tastes of cherry, plum and crisp apple. Meaty in weight and body, it makes a nice companion for the table.
The producer continues to up its game with this refined, cool-climate red that doesn't dare skimp on power and flavor. Herby, floral and elusive in waves, it's also voluptuously spicy and totally youthful in its big, dry tannin imprint.
Soft, silky and exuberant in floral aromas, this earthy, dry, lush and easy wine comes from the Anderson-Ross Vineyard along the Russian River Valley road named for its famous apples. Orange blossom, tea and dark berries dominate luxuriously.
This is a darkly fruity and spicy wine from a site overlooking the Marin Coastal range, often shrouded in fog. Planted to five clones, the site provides plenty of cardamom, clove, forest floor and black tea while allowing for a wildness of plum tart and crusty bread. The oak imprint is light.
Velvety and showing a bite of oak, this wine blends grapes from Spring Hill Vineyard and Nobles Vineyard, with a small addition from Horseshoe Bend, a coastal site that contributes earthy salinity. Bright red fruit is layered and succulent, with an underlying richness that contrasts against the sizzling acidity.
Sourced from the Stanly Ranch Vineyard, among other sites, this 100% varietal wine is light pink-orange in hue, and citrus-driven in flavor. Cherry and strawberry notes complement the lemon and grapefruit, delivering a refreshingly lengthy zip of acidity.
Light and cloudy in the glass, this wine shows a carbonic earthiness that's welcoming and complex. Forest floor, mushroom, pine and cola flavors permeate the palate in a delicately savory way, finishing bright and crisp.
This small-production wine from two spectacular sites in the Petaluma Gap is robustly earthy and spicy, showing compost and blue fruit flavor. Broadly structured, it expands on the palate, its finish dotted with black tea and clove.
Floral and earthy in tone, this vineyard-designated wine has an undercurrent of spice to it that complements its baked plum, orange and cranberry fruit. Medium bodied, ripe and concentrated, it offers breadth and softness of texture.
A fairly priced varietal wine, this shows currant, cranberry, raisin and a flurry of allspice on the nose. It takes on rose petal and lavender aromas as it opens, making it all the more pleasant and memorable.
This is a light, graceful red that's stemmy and fresh in a mix of well-integrated cranberry, rhubarb and cardamom flavors. An undercurrent of earthy truffle plays on the palate, weaving its way to a long finish.
From a vineyard planted in rocky red soil, this wine shows a depth of concentrated and intense cranberry and black tea. It's currently youthful in feel, with structured tannins and full, rich chocolate and coffee flavors. It will benefit from time in the cellar, so enjoy 2020–2024.
Baking spice wraps around sizzling acidity in this well-made, full-bodied red from the heart of the appellation's Westside Road. Dark fruit is represented within a stemmy, brooding and slightly carbonic texture that's complex and rewarding.
This blends fruit from DeVoto in the Sebastopol Hills with grapes from Terra de Promissio, Umino and Alder Springs vineyards. It's soft and thick, with rich, ripe flavors of cranberry, pomegranate and cherry, a sizzling sense of cola spice underlying it all.
Presenting at first as somewhat reduced, this wine is tart and feral, with a muskiness reminiscent of mushroom and forest floor. Its intensely voluptuous body is concentrated in black cherry, cola and cardamom, with a richness and roundness on the palate and finish.
This wine presents as elegant and remarkably earthy, laced in a distinct tartness of cranberry and citrus. Lighter styled, it is integrated in tannin and oak, allowing for a smooth texture.
Chocolate and mint notes combine effortlessly in this straightforward appellation wine, accented with rose, cherry and rhubarb. It features moderate acidity, thick tannins and weight.
Dark pink in color, this wine is marked by a nutty layering of light acidity and orange, Gravenstein apple and cherry flavors. It's delicate yet has enough stuffing and structure to pair with a wide array of dishes.
This blends 70% whole cluster-pressed juice with 30% saignée, vinified entirely in stainless steel. Fresh flower, cherry, strawberry and tangerine flavors wash brilliantly over the palate, lifted by acidity and just enough weight to feel lush.
Sourced from near the town of Sebastopol, in a site rich in Goldridge soils, this wine is juicy and complex, founded on a core of orange and cherry, with a tang of acidity that competes with the lushness. A brushy forest-floor note lies underneath the fruit, providing a lovely, savory counterpoint to the succulence.
A larger-production wine that doesn't hold back on quality, this offers a bittersweet bite of black tea, cranberry and dried herb atop aromas of dried rose petals, remaining varietal while also providing an oomph of body and texture.
This is a tremendously light Pinot with a bouquet of yellow cherry and cranberry. It's slightly more savory than fruity, expressing the region's cool vintage. The texture of the wine is soft and pleasant with a subtle hint of fuzzy tannins.
Powerful and lush, this is a velvety, classically styled Russian River Valley Pinot, weighty and lip smacking in black cherry and touch of earth buoyed by finely hued acidity. Perfectly enjoyable right now, it'll age, too, the spicy undertones coaxed to take center stage.
Sandalwood and a shovelful of fresh earth mark the entry of this wine aromatically. A soft, tart expression of the variety, it offers bittersweet tannin and dark cherry at its core.
Simple and earthy, this ranch-designate shows a wealth of brick color and flavors of cherry cola, raspberry and bay, its full-bodied ripeness offset moderately by acidity.
Juicy and big-bodied, this is a balanced expression of earthy black cherry and well-honed structure. Soft and lush on the palate, it'll appeal to fans who like a bit more meat on their Pinot bones, yet appreciate the fine texture of the tannins.
From an estate vineyard site run by one of the region's finest farmers, this Pinot is intense and vibrant in juicy red cherry and raspberry, with earthiness at its core. Exuberant and robust on the palate, it puts its time in oak on full display, and finishes light and bright.