Rich and full in the mouth, packed with red fruits and black cherries. The wine is sweet, while keeping a tannic core. Drink next year.
Produced from vines more than 100 years old in the heart of the Clos de Vougeot vineyard, this is an impressive wine with a long future. The wood aging is already surrounded by ripe, intense black fruits. A fresher character comes from the bright acidity of the vintage, giving the wine a lift. The aftertaste is long and concentrated. Drink from 2024.
Delicate and complex, a cool climate wine with a mixture of ripe cherry flavors and leaner ones of tobacco, tomato skin, and cranberry. Bone dry with excellent acidity, this somewhat tart wine is well made, and may be an ager.
Rich and opulent, this is a full-throated Pinot Noir. It has ripe berry flavors and a balancing acidity that supports a dense texture and underlay of firm tannins. While delicious now, this is a wine that will improve with aging so drink from 2016.
This wine is ripe, rich and full in the mouth, like a fruit salad of red cherries, plums and berries. Yet there's a more solid side—rounded tannins support the concentrated fruits, and touches of wood aging broaden the feel of this impressive wine. Drink from 2017.
From a walled vineyard once owned by the local bishop, this wine is structured and firm while also having great red cherry and berry fruit. It's one of a number of Premier Crus from this producer—and certainly the most expressive with its generous fruit and balanced tannins. Drink from 2018.
This is a soft and jammy wine with attractive ripe strawberry fruit and only the lightest structure. It is gentle, rounded and ready to drink.
This wine is extracted and tough. The acidity does come through to help out, although it still has a hard edge with some bitter toast. It will soften, leaving some perfumed fruit for the future.
With tannins and new-wood flavors, this rich wine is also structured. A smoky character from the wood is shot through by perfumed red fruits. The aftertaste shows more of the wood flavors that need to integrate. Drink from 2018.
This is a blend from most parts of the village, with fruit from 14 different parcels. It is solid and firm while also having great swathes of raspberries and red plums laced together with acidity. The aftertaste is perfumed with a fresh lift. Drink from 2018
With intense acidity, this wine has both good structure and red currant and raspberry fruits. It is bright, fresh and almost crisp in character. In the background, the tannins show the dense texture of the wine. It will need to age, so don't drink before 2019.
From old vines planted in a single vineyard, this is a spectacular red. It has the crisp acidity of the cool-climate Sancerre, but it also has the weight and ripeness of a fine Burgundy. The wood aging has left a spicy toasty edge to the beautiful cherry fruits and acidity. It could age for another year to be at its best. Drink from 2019.
Old-vine Pinot Noir has produced a rich structured wood-aged wine. With its opulent texture and ripe full-bodied cherries and red plums, the wine is poised and generous. Drink this impressive wine from 2018.
From one of the highest premier cru vineyards comes a wine that has a cool edge, generous fruit and firm tannins. Those elements come together with black cherry flavors and a dry core, promising a serious future. Drink from 2023.
This wine manages to combine firm structure with the finely perfumed fruit associated with Chambolle-Musigny. It's rich, fruity, lifted by acidity and held together by solid tannins. Impressive and full bodied, it's a wine to age. Drink from 2024.
This dense and structured wine comes from a small walled vineyard within the larger Les Vignes Franches premier cru, partially owned by Louis Jadot. Robust tannins frame its rich, juicy black fruit, showing potential for long aging. Drink from 2024.
This wine comes from a vineyard owned by the Gagey situated in the northern part of Nuits-Saint-Georges, close to Vosne-Romanée. It has firm structure and a perfumed character that is already enticing. Richly fruity with juicy acidity, it will be impressive as it ages. Drink from 2023.
This light, cool-climate Pinot Noir is crisp with red currant fruit and herbal-tinged acidity. It has a zesty character that keeps it lively and tight. Drink now.
This is a crisp cherry-flavored wine. Cool-climate Pinot Noir has a light texture that gives the wine a hint of tannins although it is much more about fruit and bright acidity. Drink now.
This is just recognizably Pinot Noir, full of tannins with a tight edge. Bitter cherry flavors and very fresh acidity give a mineral flavor that is only just showing juiciness. Drink from 2016.
For lovers of red sparkling wine with its attendant tannins, this is a fine example. It has a definite Pinot Noir farmyard character along with tannins, a touch of smokiness, and a definite need for food.
With a good structure, this is a solid wine from a small vineyard. It is dense with tannins as well as dark berry fruits and fresh acidity at the end. The wine will age well over the next few years, so drink from 2017.
At this stage, the wine is all dark structure and very firm. It will need time to develop its full potential as an intensely rich wine. Concentrated and firm, it is powered by tannins as well as sweet red fruits. So age for five years at least.
Light in color, this is a fruity, softly tannic and lightweight wine. It brings out red fruits that are now maturing, giving spice and a touch of pepper with final acidity. Drink now.
A smooth and rounded wine, its ripe plum and blueberry flavors well integrated into the soft tannins and sweet acidity. Drinkable now, but worth waiting for two more years.
Very dark, structured wine, with coffee as well as fruit flavors. The wood comes through firmly producing a solid, very dry character. The more juicy black currant fruits are still to show well. So wait to drink until 2015.
This wine is fresh, perfumed with a juicy red-fruit character. It offers red cherries, with a soft texture and acidity. The great fruitiness leads to a bright, crisp aftertaste.
Givry is one of the unsung values in Burgundy. This ripe and structured wine shows why. It has weight, a firm texture and red plum and strawberry fruit flavors. All these elements are held together by a dark sense of tannin and fine acidity.
Soft and fruity with some sweetness, this red-fruit-flavored wine is rounded and warm, crispened by acidity.
This is a soft, gentle Pinot with a plum jelly flavor derived from a touch of sweetness in its fruit. Drink now.
In this case, Vieilles Vignes (old vines) only means vines over 20 years. The wine is soft, rounded and full of red cherry fruitiness. Judicious wood aging has rounded the wine out while leaving all its fruit intact. It can be drunk now, but will be better from 2016.
This light-colored wine has a spicy character that points up the tannins as well as the red berry fruits. It has a light feeling, with refreshing acidity that shows strongly at the end. It's ready to drink.
From the recent appellation at the southern end of the Côte de Beaune, this is a light and very fruity wine with little discernible tannin or structure. Red cherries and fresh acidity dominate and the wine should be drunk young.
Structured, concentrated, a wine that shows power from both fruit and tannins. The opulent strawberry flavors are paralleled by firm, dry tannins. As the combination comes together, this will become a glorious wine.
Big, full-bodied wine, the great tannins dominating the underlying red fruit. It's firmly concentrated, intense, a powerhouse of dense texture and obviously a wine that will need aging. Give it 5–6 years.
Very dense wine, its tannins solid and concentrated. The structure is the leader here, with the young fruit showing through as black plum skins and crushed strawberries. This is a firmly tannic wine, needing aging.
The aromas of smoky new wood follow through to the wood flavors on the palate. However, it's the powerful sweet black cherry and red berry fruit flavors, layered with fruit tannins and acidity, that are driving this impressive wine. For aging at least six years.
Typical Beaune in its round, soft character. If the tannins are not particularly powerful, it still shows a generous nature, with super-ripe fruits supported by some dryness. The finish is jammy, ripe, a salad of red berries.
No surprise that Willi Bründlmayer is one of the few in Austria to have real success with Pinot Noir. This is soft, ripe, enveloping, with bitter cherry flavors rounded at the edges with sweet tannins and refreshing acidity.
The wine is tight, green and herbal. It has some fruitiness, but that is suppressed by general underripeness. The tannins are hard at the end.
This tight wine has red fruit acidity without the richness. With its green edge, it's likely to remain full of acidity even as it matures.
A firm wine that is mainly tannin without a great fruit element. It is dry, tight and hard-edged.
This is an austere wine, packed with tannins and tight acidity. The red fruits are right at the back behind the firm structure. A mineral character supports the dusty texture and suggests long-term aging. Drink from 2018.
Blanc de Noirs, white Champagne only from red grapes, produces wines with some weight, as here. It makes for a rich, full-blooded Champagne, packed with red fruits while also cut through with intense acidity. The fruitiness gains shape from a zesty texture.
A solid, dense wine, packed with tannins and with a dry core. The soft fruit has flavors of strawberry, hinting at richness to come. At this early stage, tannins and acidity are still forming. Hold for five years.
There is a voluptuous edge to this generous wine. It has rich flavors, some strawberry and plum juice. The final extreme freshness shows through the layer of firm tannins. For aging over 4–5 years.
Big, structured and solid, with powerful dense fruit, this is packed with plum juice flavors. The wine feels chunky, while the acidity keeps everything in proportion.
The wine is ripe, balanced and likely to be ready to drink soon. With its plump fruitiness and texture, it is a full wine. Rich red-berry fruits are gently balanced by acidity and supported with a light layer of tannins. It will be very drinkable from late 2017.
This bone-dry wine is made using Pinot Noir skins to give its salmon-pink color. It is dry and tightly crisp, compared with the brut nature cuvée also made from Pinot Noir. The ripe red fruits give a fruity character that balances the dryness. Like many really dry Champagnes, it needs to age to soften the intensity of the acidity, so drink this bottling from 2017.
This is a rich wine made from a selection of Pinot Noirs, including some from grand cru vineyards. It is textured with hints of tannin as well as yeast and minerality, concentrated while also stylish. Ripe pear and apricot flavors are lively and ripe. A young bottling, it's worth aging until 2017.
From vineyards outside the main village appellations of the Côte de Nuits, this is a firm, almost austere wine. It has a dry extract character that is suppressing the red plum and berry fruit flavors. Give it time, although it is probably always going to be dry.
Produced by the cooperative of the Hautes Côtes, this wine is bright and fruity. It has light tannins and warm, red cherry character. With its acidity and structure it could age, although not for long. Drink from 2018.
From the hills to the west of Nuits-St.-Georges, this is a crisp, red berry-flavored wine. It has light tannins and juicy, perfumed fruit—all in balance and ready to drink soon, from 2018.
The red wine from this vineyard (which also produces a white) is firm with layers of toast from wood aging as well as the potential for ripe red fruits. It is going to need some time to lose that spicy flavor that currently dominates the wine. Give it until 2021.
This aromatic wine is delicious Pinot Noir. With fine ripe red fruits that are shot through with tannins for aging and crisp acidity for refreshing drinking, this is a rich wine that should be drunk now.
The wine is ripe and warm with generous red-berry fruits and touches of spice. The wine is rounded, full of fruitiness with a layer of tannins that is nicely judged to give support and breadth to the fruit. Drink from 2019.
A ripe and soft wine, this is impressively rich for a Pinot Noir grown so far north in Burgundy. It has hints of red fruits along with pear and tight citrus minerality. The wine is ready to drink.
This wine comes from a four-acre parcel of 55-year-old vines. It has the concentration that is so special to old vines. That goes with the ripe red fruits and generous tannins that give the wine great richness. It is a young wine still even though so fruity and will be better to drink from 2019.
The mature vines in the name of the wine are 40-years-old. The result is a firm structured wine although one with plenty of soft red fruits in the background. They are developing well, bringing with them acidity and good potential. Drink this wine from 2018.
This softly perfumed wine has red-fruit flavors and plenty of acidity. It is jammy and juicy with succulent red berries. Drink now.
Still young and firm, this wine gives indications of potential fruitiness along with a structure that promises concentration. Layers of black fruits and acidity need time to integrate fully with the dark structure and dense texture. Wait to drink this wine for a few more years, at least until 2018.
This beautifully perfumed wine comes from one of the highest in elevation premier cru vineyards. The tannins have fully integrated with the red berry and cherry fruits to give a soft, jammy character that contrasts with acidity to give a great lift at the end. Drink this sophisticated wine from 2018.
The two parcels that go into this wine have performed well in 2012. This solid, dense wine is firm with tannins and rich with red plum and berry fruits. It is perfumed, ripe and concentrated. With this structure and with the acidity, it will age, so drink from 2018.
This is a style of Pinot Noir that needs to be drunk chilled. It brings out the smoky, stalky character of the wine that dominates the bitter cherry fruits. It's still young and needs another year to come together.
This wine is fruity and ripe with fresh red-berry fruits and layers of smoky tannins. Those tannins will open up to give a rich, juicy and spicy wine from 2018.
Three barrels were made of this structured, tannic wine that offers a juicy balance between acidity and dark tannins. It is perfumed with acidity that cuts through the red berry and dry concentration. It is a dense wine, full of fruit. Drink from 2019.
Soft and full of red fruits, this is a simple, forward and immediately drinkable wine, with gentle tannins and light acidity. There are no complications here, just fruitiness.
This light-colored, soft and supple wine has a palate filled with red fruits. It's immediately drinkable, already showing signs of maturity.
Very light and fresh, this offers crisp red berry flavors. It's not quite dry, favoring fruitiness and acidity with a touch of sweetness to soften the crisp aftertaste.
Ripe with a warm character, this wine has both bright red berry fruit and a rich, generous structure. Its fruitiness shows that it's still young—its acidity very much upfront. It will fill out and develop richness with time in bottle. Drink from 2020.
Red fruit dominates this attractive, light wine that shows the acidity of the year while also suggesting light tannins. The aftertaste has a touch of smokiness. It will develop quickly.
Firmly tannic, this is a structured wine that now lacks fruitiness. It needs to be drunk now.
Deliciously perfumed, this shows some of the structure of the vintage, along with generous raspberry and red cherry flavors. It is rich and solid, and its open character has just the right edge of dense tannins. Already approachable, but it's likely to age over several years.
Firm, concentrated and solid, this has a tight core that's surrounded by sweeter dark-plum fruit. This is ripe and full bodied, with a definite need for aging.
This is a lean, acid-driven wine, without much in the way of generous fruit. It has a green strawberry note, with a light sense of structure and a minerally finish.
Surprisingly light for the vintage, this has a wood note and intense acidity, with a crisp, almost green, raspberry flavor. The finish is juicy.
A rich and fruity wine with dense cherry and strawberry fruits and a dry, tannic structure. It has a tough edge that suggests aging potential while also bringing out a ripe character from this southernmost appellation in the Côte d'Or.
Good, rich, fruited wine,with lively acidity and a pure fresh character. There is some maturity here, a wine with a fine texture, finishing with rich toast.
Beautifully perfumed wine, with fresh red fruits and some fine tannins. The wood element is perhaps too dominant for the weight of the wine. Hopefully this will subside. Give it 3–4 years.
From the new, négociant side of Domaine Jessiaume, now owned by Scottish businessman Sir David Murray. The wine hints at the grandeur possible from Clos de Vougeot without quite achieving it. The power is there, but without the black richness. Instead, there are fine tannins, firm dark fruit skins and elegance. Age for 3–4 years.
A ripe, red berry-fruit flavored wine, highlighted with sweet cherries. At this young stage, it shows more fruit than structure. Tannins are here, likely to flesh out the wine as it develops. For the moment, enjoy the great swathes of sweet fruit.
Dark and structured, powered by smoky tannins and plum skin texture. The wine is just beginning, its weight an indication of good aging potential. It is firm and dense, the acidity providing an attractive final freshness.
With its fine tannic structure, plum juice sweetness and beautifully ripe fruits, this is a wine that combines structure with a rich velvet coat. The acidity gives a fine lift, bringing out strawberries and a final piercing freshness.
Already a beautifully balanced wine, with firm tannin, ripe cherry fruits and a fine, elegant structure. A plush feel is just beginning to develop, showing through the tight, closed youthful texture.
Gorgeous, rich Pinot flavors float over soft, ripe tannins. Strawberry-fruit flavors offer freshness and bright acidity. The dense texture is very evident, layered with wonderfully perfumed flavors from wood and fruit.
Ripe, generous, powerful and opulent, the wine combines blackberry juice character with mature spice and mushroom flavors. This is a massive wine, with a gorgeous velvet texture, only a taut core of tannins. Despite moving towards a mature phase, it has many years ahead.
This has the great aromatic complexity you expect from Rugiens. Generous and full textured, this is a full-bodied, rounded wine. Sweet red fruits, touched by spice, are well balanced with a streak of acidity. Wait for four years, at least.
Luscious and seriously structured, this is a wine that offers the dense texture of a Gevrey Grand Cru vineyard. It has rich fruit, touched by chocolate and licorice, as well as ripe black fruits. For aging over 4–5 years and more.
While light in color, this rich wine is full of both fruit and tannin. It has real Pinot Noir cherry and strawberry flavors, lightened by cool acidity. The structure comes from the rich wood flavors and the complex tannins. Drink from 2015.
This ripe, sweet-fruited wine is soft and quite mature. Red fruits have developed into a smooth and round texture with a delicate mushroom character. Drink now.
This producer in Corgoloin has made a lightweight red Burgundy, with bitter cherry flavors. The tannins are soft, the effect somewhat rustic with an earthy, high acid aftertaste.
This is a fine wine with its balanced red-cherry and berry flavors and finely textured tannins. The wine is light, poised and very stylish with its fruit and acidity just right. The wine will age another few months, so drink from 2018.
From Tramier's own vineyards, this is a soft, fleshy wine with a light touch. The tannins are already gentle and the red berry fruits are highlighted by crisp acidity. For short-term aging only.
Fragrant and perfumed, this has a smoky character and crisp fruit, while remaining attractively ripe. The tannins are soft, and the acidity on the finish is fruity.
This young wine is fruity and fresh, perfumed with spice and lemon blossom. The tight texture will soften as the wine ages to bring out the warmth and richness of the vintage. Keep this long-term wine and drink from 2018.
This pale-colored rosé comes from a producer based in the Aube region. The wine is smooth, raspberry flavored and with a light tang of acidity. The wine is fruity, with a strong sense of the structure and flavor of the wine used to give color. Drink now.
In this powerful, full-bodied wine, soft fruit accompanies the firm tannins. The wine is already well integrated, showing dense red fruits as well as structure. A touch of wood will soften soon. Drink from 2016.
Soft and gently fruity, it's fairly basic but does provide a Pinot Noir character. The wine has red cherries, light acidity and a jammy aftertaste. Drink now.
Attractively perfumed, this is a soft, young and fruity wine. Gentle tannins back up the red fruits and fragrant acidity. Coming from vineyards behind the main slope of the Côtes de Beaune, it is a cool wine, fresh with fruit and ready to drink soon, from 2016.
The wine comes from what many consider to be the Grand Cru of Nuits Saint-Georges. It is firm and structured with solid tannins over black-cherry fruits. There is a tight streak of acidity that cuts through the wine giving a crisp center to the fine fruit. Drink this wine from 2019.
This Premier Cru is situated in the southern half of Savigny, close to Beaune proper. Here it has produced a ripe generous wine full of spicy smoky red fruits and balanced acidity. The wine is still showing its baby fruit and needs time. Drink from 2019.
This is a rounded full-bodied wine that has red-fruit fleshiness as well as fine tannins for the future. It comes from 70-year-old vines on the southeast facing slopes that make up Volnay's Premier Cru vineyards. Rich in black fruits and dark smoky tannins, the wine also has intense young acidity. Drink this impressive wine from 2020.
This is a structured, firm wine that's intensely tannic, but full of potential. Still brash and youthful, it's full of concentrated black-cherry and berry flavors that are unabashedly forward. The texture is dry and dense, but with age the wine should integrate. Drink from 2016.
Sourced from an old parcel of Pinot Noir, this is a concentrated, dense wine with bold red-fruit flavors, a tight line of acidity and a dry, intense character. It hasn't lost its fruitiness and freshness, and should continue to improve till at least 2021.
Finely perfumed, with berry fruits that freshen the more severe tannins. The wine has concentrated structure, smokiness as well as fresh acidity. The finish is dry and firm.
There is definite structure to this wine, with its tight acidity and dry, apple skin and pear flavors. There is also a touch of spice that gives the wine a unique twist. Drink now.
Always an impressive vineyard, it has produced a dense wine in this vintage. It's full of both intense, perfumed red fruits and smoky, dusty tannins that give an elegant structure. Drink from 2020.
Ripe and sweet, this wine is full of generous red plums and berries. It is immediately attractive with its spice, structure and tannins playing a supporting role to the almost jammy fruit. Acidity at the end adds some attractive freshness to this ripe wine. Drink from 2020
This fruity wine has soft and tannins and a jammy backdrop. It is ripe and full in the mouth with strawberry and red plum jelly flavors. Drink now. This is one of the first vintages since Labouré-Roi, which was hit by scandal in 2012, passed into new ownership.
For the vintage, this is a surprisingly soft wine. It's already juicy, full of fresh strawberries and soft tannins. That makes for a delicious wine, rounded with a touch of wood. It's not likely to age much beyond 2017,  but is certainly attractive now.
A perfumed wine, it's rich and full of ripe berry flavors. Solid tannins are integrating well into the fruitiness. It feels dense and with good potential. Drink from 2018.
A dark-hued wine, it's richly fruity with spice and wood flavors. It is ripe, full in the mouth, offering solid tannins as well as attractive acidity. It's suited for medium-term aging, so drink from 2016.
An impressively powerful wine, with packed acidity, sweet fruits and ripe tannins. The wine has great density, a dusty texture, the fruit powering through while preserving the relative austerity of the vintage.
A wine with great weight, density and structure from a well-positioned parcel of vines. The juicy plum flavors affirm the potential for opulence as the wine ages.
Firmly tannic wine, with balancing ripe fruit well under the structured layers. The weight of the wine comes from the rich and generous black plum fruit and acidity. A wine for long-term aging.
All the proper structure of young Gevrey-Chambertin with the addition of rich, generous fruit. The core is of wood and dry fruit tannins, the fruit of rich black plum juice. At this stage, the wine is firm. Give it 5–6 years to open up.
Rich, opulent and spicy, with a great balance between wood and fruit. The generous black plum and black currant fruit is delicious, balanced by taut acidity. Keep for 3-4 years.
Firmly structured wine, which also boasts delicious jammy fruit, very ripe, very opulent. The tannins are sweet and rich, suggesting aging potential over 7–8 years and more. An impressive wine.
A wine that is very mineral, very structured in its tannins, the black fruits flavors a straight line cut through with acidity.
A delicious, crisp wine, with great bitter cherry and wild strawberry flavors and a high-definition streak of acidity. A great summer drink, but also for food.
A chunky wine, packed with tannins that fill out the dark plum and black cherry fruits. It's solid, if on the dry side, with fine acidity.
This is a fruity wine, packed with juicy red cherries. Considerable acidity gives a very fresh feel and allows the soft tannins to develop easily. With its light character and lack of depth, it is not for aging. Drink from 2016.
The Côte Chalonnaise gives a fruity while structured style of red Burgundy. It's juicy, with red cherries and berries giving a bright character behind the still-present tannic structure. It's ready to drink, although it will be better in 2015.
This monopole (wholly-owned vineyard) is in the heart of the village of Aloxe-Corton. The 2005 is structured and wood-dominated at this stage; the dense fruit and the sweet, ripe, red berry acidity are waiting to develop into a wine that will be rich, smooth and velvety. Give it 6 years at least.
The fruit bursts out of the glass, while the supporting tannins give power and intensity to this concentrated wine. It has all the richness of 2005, backed with juicy red fruits and some vibrant acidity. Age this wine, although its generous character means you could drink it in 5 years. Not available in the U.S.
This dark, brooding wine shows many of the qualities of this great vineyard, just across the road from Romanée-Conti. The dense tannins dominate, but the rich black cherry fruit is their equal, creating structure. A wine to savor over many years.
Wines from Morey-Saint-Denis should be opulent in 2005, and this wine has opulence in spades. It fills the mouth with rich red plums, red cherries and some cranberry juice to give an edge of dryness. Maybe complexity is edged out by all this juicy fruit, but the tannins do firm up the wine, which should certainly age 10 years or more.
Big, burly Pinot Noir, dominated by black cherries, rich fruit and firm tannins. This is wine that shows richness, with a smoky, chewy structure and great spice and aromatic perfumes. The juiciness comes through on the finish, but never leaves the structure behind.
Powerful and dense, this shows structured, ripe and concentrated black plum and dark cherry flavors. It has dense, firm tannins, which look likely to dominate the wine for many years, leaving a strong, dry aftertaste.
For a Savigny, this is surprisingly firm and tannic, the wine's structure an impressive edifice of dry tannins and firm cranberry and plum skin flavors. It is certainly ripe, the fruit promising attractive richness in 3–5 years, followed by good aging potential.
Intensely perfumed, this wine shows both strength and great elegance. The raspberry flavors float over a light structure of some dry tannins. The acidity is there, but it is the generosity of the fruit that is most obvious, going right through the wine to the sweet, jammy finish.
Pure Pinot Noir from the south of Beaujolais, this is soft, fruity and with attractive acidity. Red fruits and a crisp acidity give this wine its bright character. Ready to drink now.
From a single parcel in Chorey-lès-Beaune, this fruity wine has crisp red berry flavors and light tannins. It's ripe and will develop easily and quickly into a soft, rounded wine. Drink from 2018.
A gentle wine with open and generous soft berry fruits showing through dusty tannins and lively acidity. This is likely to develop relatively fast into a delicious wine.
As befits a single vineyard Gevrey Chambertin, this is a structured wine, firmly rooted in tannins. Hidden beneath are black plum and cherry flavors that are raring to go—rich and sumptuous. It's a wine for aging, so drink from 2016.
This is a smooth, ripe, and rounded wine that's intense on the palate with bright red-fruit flavors. Integrated acidity and hints of maturity add balance to rich fruitiness. Reserve wines blended into the Champagne lend a fullness to the palate that makes the wine ready to drink now.
This is an attractive, fast-maturing wine with soft tannins, ripe fruits and a juicy, perfumed acidity. It has considerable weight and concentration, along with firm red-plum and berry flavors. It's an elegant wine that should be drunk from 2017.
A dense wine, its tannins firmly in place. It shows ripe red berry fruits, firm structure and rich, juicy fruit. Powered by its tannins, it will remain a firm wine for 2–3 years.
A young tannic wine with jammy, fresh red-cherry fruits and red plum skins. The acidity is palpable, shooting through the structure, giving the wine a fresh, fruity aftertaste.
The grapes were harvested in the early morning to preserve the real freshness that is here. The attractive, rich wine is full in the mouth with its red-berry and red-currant fruits that are cut with citrus. The wine is ready to drink.
Fresh and juicy, this wine delivers round, ripe strawberry flavors. Solid tannins don't lose sight of the freshness of the year and balance the rich, jammy aftertaste. The wine, with its attractive fruits, will develop quickly. Drink from 2019.
An earthy wine with rich, red fruits along with a barnyard flavor. The wine is ripe and jammy, the juicy acidity coming through at the end.
This firmly structured, dense wine is packed with dark plum and fig fruits, laced with chocolate and tannins. It's a solid, foursquare style of wine, with acidity and fruit forming a fine partnership. Like many wines from this year, it is likely to mature quickly, so drink from 2016.
Lightly perfumed, this soft, single-vineyard wine is full of black-cherry fruits. Its acidity and round texture make it a wine to drink young. Drink from 2018.
The wine in this 100% Pinot Noir comes from one of the top villages in the Montagne de Reims. It is rich, structured and with a youthful character despite its nine years . It has berry and rich plum fruits as well as a dry core of acidity. Drink this ageworthy Champagne from 2019.
The aroma shows old wood flavors that don't work. On the palate, the wood also gives some bitterness that needs to disappear to bring out the best of the red fruits. It's probably always going to be on the hard side.
This wine is produced from vines aged 62–88 years old. It has ripe red fruits and soft tannins creating a wine that is generous and ready to drink. It is a blend of grapes from the flat lands beyond the slopes in the Côte d'Or. The wine finishes with acidity as well as attractive fruitiness.
This is an attractive red-fruit flavored wine with fine acidity as well as juicy berries and cherry. Its soft tannins are just right to sustain the delicious fruitiness. Dink this wine from 2017.
Now in its 14th generation, this domaine has produced a ripe wine from this single parcel. It's both structured and packed with red fruit and acidity, reflecting its vintage. Drink from 2018.
This is a young, fruity wine with bright acidity and red berry fruit that comes across as lean. Its structure and tannic core suggests it needs to age. Drink from 2019.
A small, acre-sized parcel gives a wine that has both great structure and finesse. It retains the natural fruitiness of the vintage as well as a more defined texture. Concentration and densely ripe fruit are already finely integrated with the hints of wood. The wine speaks of long aging potential; don't drink before 2019.
Rounded and rich, it is full of dark fruits and red cherries that combine with firm tannins and great acidity. This comes from a parcel of the Corton Rognets Grand Cru that unusually has been given the Faiveley name. Drink from 2020.
This dark, brooding wine is still tight and closed. It's powerful and concentrated, with gripping tannins as well as delicious black fruits. It's solid, chunky and very firm while retaining the generous fruitiness of the vintage. Don't drink before 2020.
This is richly powerful, packed with dark plum fruits and solid, concentrated tannins. At this stage, it is closed, a potential powerhouse of firm fruits and structure. It has weight, the fruit and the firm texture all promising long-term aging. Drink from 2020.
Power and concentration exude from this wine. Very structured, very firm, it has solid tannins backed up by powerful black, juicy fruits. Blackberry flavors are still developing in this seriously ageworthy wine. Drink from 2020.
This is a powerful wine with complex structure, dense fruits and a solid texture. It's dry, firm, dark and still very young. The core of the wine is still tannin, the black cherry fruit giving so much richness before the fresh acidity cuts in. Drink from 2018.
A specialty of Chanson, this small premier cru gives a perfumed, dark and tannic wine. The dense, firm structure gives a dramatic base to the ripe black fruits, balanced acidity and a touch of wood that smoothes the wine. Drink from 2018.
A wine with power and structure from one of the great Grand Crus of Burgundy. The wines have weight with generous red fruits and a great sense of depth,  and are very firm at the end. The vines are managed by Bernard Bouvier.
Very terroir-driven from chalk soil in this great vineyard, this firmly structured wine is powerful and solid. There is a mineral character at this stage of the wine's development, with 60% new wood giving a lightly smoky feel. Drink from 2017.
A firmly structured wine, packed with fruit, acidity and complex tannins. It is powerful, dark and rich with great weight to balance the dry, smoky character from wood aging. It's impressive, concentrated with a touch of licorice and spice that  cuts through the acidity. Drink from 2020.
Ripe and fruity, this is a round, soft wine that shows the jammy character of Pinot Noir. It has a straight line of acidity that cuts through the fruit, which makes for an attractive, light finish.
While this shows the concentration of the vines that were planted in the 1940s, it also has a tight, lean quality and considerable acidity. Its fruit is still subdued by the structure, and it needs 3–4 years to become round.
Nicolas Potel's entry-level Burgundy is an elegant, fruity wine, with soft tannins, rich strawberry fruit and a ripe feel. It is ready to drink.
A ripe, balanced wine that has juicy red strawberry and raspberry fruits and fine acidity to balance. It is warm and rounded, full of dense fruits, with its tannins surrounded by the cushion of the fruit. Drink this already delicious wine from 2021.
Structured and firm with fine red fruits and acidity, this is a wine that brings out all the structure of the appellation. It has acidity and red cherry and berry fruits that are shot through with a crisp texture. Drink from 2020.
From one of the highest of the Mercurey premier crus, this wine has a crisp edge to its otherwise ripe red fruits. It has a fine line of wood as well as the juicy fruitiness and acidity. The wine is already balanced, likely to develop easily and quickly. Drink this from 2019.
Dominated by its young tannins, this perfumed wine is bright with acidity. It has spice, an intense, crisp character and the need to age for a considerable time. Drink from 2023.
This is a single-vineyard wine which is beautifully rich and already soft and smooth enough to drink. To be sure, it will age further and mellow with time, but for now it is the ripe red-berry fruits and generous tannins that are so attractive. Drink now and until 2026.
This soft and cushiony wine has light red cherry fruit, gentle tannins and an attractively soft, fruity aftertaste. Drink now.
This light, fruity, strawberry-flavored wine has good acidity, soft tannins and just a touch of softness from ripe fruit. It's ready to drink, but will be best from 2015.
From the northernmost appellation of the Côte de Nuits, this firm and solidly tannic wine comes from one of the vineyards on the list to get Premier Cru approval in the near future. Its tannins are well balanced already with the red-berry fruit and bitter-cherry flavors that are shot through with acidity. Drink from 2018.
Still firm and tannic, this dense wine will need some time to develop. It has dark tannins and concentrated red-plum and berry flavors. A smoky background from the wood aging will soften over the next year. However with the tannins, the wine should not be drunk before 2020.
Highly reputed for its red wines, Vacheron continues to display its skills with this latest vintage. The wine is rich and full with a combination of bright red fruits and a firm, integrated structure. It is a fresh wine now and one that should age. Drink from 2018.
Soft and ripe, this has light tannins, red berry fruit and a round texture. It has a touch of firmness, acidity and good density. Drink now, or age it for 2–3 years.
Still young, this wine has a tight character that needs to open up. Since there is plenty of fruit along with perfumed acidity, it will happen. Tannins and a bitter edge need to be softened, so wait until late 2016 for this wine's potential to really show.
Packed with acidity as much as fruit, this is a tight, intensely fresh wine. There are some hints of tannins from the Pinot Noir as well as raspberry fruits, although the crisp acidity shows most strongly.
The bishop's (Evêque) vineyard has produced a stylish, full-flavored wine, densely packed with black cherry, ripe tannins and a juicy, fruity character. It is a dense wine with tannins that promise good aging. Drink from 2016.
Lovely red berry fruits, with great acidity and fine perfumes. The elegance of the wine is spoilt slightly by a rustic edge, although the red berry aftertaste is fresh and clean.
Rich, as a Blanc de Noirs from Pinot Noir should be, this wine reflects the prime location of Mailly on the north slopes of the Montagne de Reims. It has some tannic structure as well as delicious line in black currant and acidity. It is a young bottling, so keep for several months.
This wine is produced from old-vine Pinot Noir planted on flint soil. The wood from the wine's aging does show, giving a spicy, smoky character that is still dominating the red-cherry fruits. This will balance out over the next few months to give a wine with concentration. The aftertaste brings out acidity. Drink from 2017.
Vines over 45-years-old in the most northerly vineyard in Givry are the source of this rich smooth wine. It has a fine combination of blackberry fruits and pointed acidity that gives it a great lift. The balance is just right: the tannins comfortably part of the ripe fruitiness. Drink this wine from 2018.
A lean, high acid wine that has a dry edge to it. It does have of red fruit flavors but for a basic red Burgundy there is too much structure, not enough ripeness.
Named after the red soil of the vineyard, this wine is rich and full of generous red fruits. They are cut with the acidity of the vintage to give a crisp edge to this full-bodied wine. Spice and hedgerow fruits finish a wine that still needs to develop. Drink from 2020.
A family operation, now run by Jean-Pierre and Philippe, Guillernot's flagship wine is generous and ripe. It has plenty of warm structure, while the red fruits are juicy and perfumed. This is developing into a full, rich wine that will be full of fruit. Drink from 2019 (this wine may age well beyond).
Still quite closed, this is a firm wine with all its tight tannins still in place. It's dry at this stage, although the fruit is going to develop well. Acidity and a hint of perfumed red-berry flavors promise a good future. Drink from 2020.
Light in color and with considerable acidity, this wine boasts cherry fruits along with a dry texture and spice. It is not for aging.
This attractive, delicate wine features gentle tannins and immediately accessible red-berry fruits. The structure is well integrated into the fruitiness of the wine. Acidity and a jammy strawberry aftertaste suggests this wine will be ready to drink soon. Drink from 2018.
This wine is quite firm, but with plenty of black fruits under the severe exterior. Heavy losses from hail don't seem to have affected the ripeness and the structure of what will develop into a very fine wine. It offers spice and a touch of chocolate at the end.
A delicious Volnay, all warm fruits and sweet tannins. The wine is soft as well as juicy, enjoying ripe cherry and red plum juice flavors. The tannins and acidity give a gentle boost. Drink now, or age for 3–4 years.
Full-bodied wine, rich and rounded. It has its edge of tannins underlying the ripe cherry fruits. There is a jammy character that seems to diminish any acidity, making this a wine for drinking soon.
Already balanced, this is a rich, firm and elegant wine. Its fruitiness comes from plum skins and black cherries as well as the acidity. It also has a solid core of tannin.
This is a generous wine, full of red-berry fruitiness and acidity with firm tannins. It is almost ready to drink. Wait until 2017.
From the Aegerter domaine, this wine is full of spicy red fruits. It comes from a vineyard in the hills above Nuits Saint-Georges, and the cooler elevation shows in the acidity and fresh fruitiness. The wine is ready to drink.
Epineuil is a region between Burgundy and Chablis, producing light, fruity Pinot Noir. This perfumed and dusty wine does show some firm tannins. It is bright with red currant and raspberry fruits, with a fresh aftertaste.
This wine is firm and structured, with complex tannins and dark black-fruit flavors. Under the tannins, juicy fruit with considerable acidity gives signs of great potential. The aftertaste again comes back to the structure. Drink from 2019.
The cooler northern part of Burgundy is not far from southern Champagne, so it's unsurprising that this is the source of much sparkling Burgundy. This pale colored rosé is soft and fruity, with a hint of red cherry and plenty of fine, crisp acidity. Drink now.
Firm, concentrated and tannic, this has a smoky character that contrasts the red plum and strawberry fruits. It is solid and chunky, needing to age over several years.
Structured and firm, this has perfumed acids and solid tannins. A fruity character surfaces, lending a round finish.
Fruity and tannic, this has a dry character that dominates the red fruit underneath. It's full bodied, with a nervy edge of acidity and a smoky flavor that comes from having been aged in wood.
From a number of Premier Cru vineyards, the wine is solid and dark. Firm, dry tannins still dominate and give promise for aging. At the same time, black plum fruit flavors show a riper side and add richness to the mix. Drink from 2016.
Old vines grown on a three-acre parcel on the lower slopes of Savigny have produced a finely perfumed wine. It has ripe raspberry fruit and a light layer of tannins. The aftertaste is more structured, showing hints of wood aging as well as acidity. Drink the wine from 2018.
Both rich and opulent, this complex and dense wine is packed with the richest strawberries and a firm, black core of tannin. The velvet casing of the wine is ripe and generous while still needing many years to age. This is a wine for the long-haul, don't touch before 2020.
Full with dusty tannins from the intensely rocky Aux Cras vineyard, this wine offers rich and rounded fruits. Red berries come through strongly, offering an initially fruit-driven wine that then opens out into one that is dense, very structured and with aging potential. Drink this terroir-driven wine from 2018.
Smoky aromas add to the red fruits and manifest themselves on the palate as the spicy, toasty wood aging. The fruits are still developing, a series of rich berries and currants that will be ripe and generous. For the moment, the dry tannins dominate, so give this wine until 2018.
From Bouchard's home vineyard, this is one of their signature wines. In 2005, it has produced a luscious, fruity wine whose richness is only a part of its wonderful floating character. The ripeness of the wine is matched by its structure, which promises considerable aging.
This is a serious, rich, concentrated wine. It has weight, density and a powerful structure that offers black cherry and plum fruits. Dominated at this stage by a dry, tannic core, it needs to age. Drink from 2017.
This powerful, spicy wine offers structure and a thrust of wood. Firm and dark, as befits a Vosne-Romanée, it is densely powerful, full of black fruits that are already shining above the structure. Drink from 2017.
Sweet and rounded, this is a very satisfying wine. Packed with fruits, ripe strawberry flavor and balanced acidity, it also has solid tannins to give weight and structure. The fruit, full of juice, hangs from thE structure, making it round and rich on the finish. Drink from 2017.
From a parcel that is outside the Premier Cru of Les Damodes, this is a structured, steely and mineral-textured wine. Firm tannins go with attractive perfumes and the potential of ripe, jammy fruit. The end has great acidity as well as a smoky character from wood aging. Drink from 2016.
Corton Grancey is the site of Louis Latour's winery and has a long tradition in the family's hands. This 2011 is powerful and solid while offering very ripe and jammy fruits. Attractive acidity cuts through the richness and contrasts with the finely modulated structure. It has good aging potential, drink from 2018.
This solid, bold wine has a velvet texture. Black fruits are rounded with a generous texture, although a firmer, tannic character waits in the background. It is structured and elegant. Drink from 2017.
A blend of wines from different Premier Cru vineyards, this is firm, as befits a Pommard, but has such great ripe fruit that it feels almost opulent. Lovely rich raspberry fruits are touched wit red currants and supported by solid tannins  at the end. Drink from 2017.
The wine is firm and structured while still having fresh juicy fruitiness. Wood and fruit tannins give a dense core of dryness, leaving the acidity and red berry fruits still developing. From one of the best Premier Crus in Pommard, this will be best drunk after 2018.
Richly juicy, this offers a combination of ripe red and black fruits and dark, dense tannins. It's a solid, complex wine with a strong sense of minerality as well as opulent fruitiness. Drink this potentially delicious wine from 2017.
The two-acre Clos du Chapitre vineyard is in the center of the Gevrey-Chambertin village. The wine is rich, full-bodied, full of red fruits, dark cherries and a rounded, perfumed character. It's powerful with its firm structure and complex balance between fruit and acidity. Drink from 2017.
Still young, this wine has a tight character that needs to open up. Since there is plenty of fruit along with perfumed acidity, it will happen. Tannins and a bitter edge need to be softened, so wait until late 2016 for this wine's potential to really show.
Packed with acidity as much as fruit, this is a tight, intensely fresh wine. There are some hints of tannins from the Pinot Noir as well as raspberry fruits, although the crisp acidity shows most strongly.
This wine is laced with wood and spice. It is ripe and fruity, also having a strong pepper and toast character and a light sprinkling of tannin. Juicy cherries give a lift at the end. Drink now.
Structured and dense with tannins, this is a big wine with a big future. Its black fruits, acidity and solid texture all point to its weight and richness. It is going to be a rich fruity wine. But wait until 2023.
The Suremain family winery in the main street of Mercurey has cellars going back to the 17th century. This wood-aged wine will have been kept here, where it has developed into a structured and firm wine, full of dry tannins as well as ripe red-berry fruits. Drink from 2023.
This is a generous wine with fine potential. Its rich red fruits and acidity are contrasted with dense tannins and spice from the wood aging. It will be slow but sure to develop into a delicious wine. Drink from 2021.
Fruity and with plenty of acidity, this is a crisp wine, still exposing the tight mineral texture. The red-currant and raspberry fruits are prominent, shot through with acidity. Drink from 2023.
There is a depth of flavor and concentration from low-yield old vines. The style gives raspberry flavors and acidity, with a light tannic character.
The wine comes from a parcel that is less than an acre. Vines aged for 45 years on average have created a structured, concentrated wine with powerful tannins and dark, black fruits. It is a wine for serious aging, It's unlikely to be ready before 2020.
In an impressive line up of Premier Crus from Mercurey, this is the most structured. With dark dry tannins and a firm structure it has considerable potential for aging. The rich black fruits are still developing, filling the wine with fine perfumes and juicy acidity. The wine needs to wait, drink from 2020.
This is a small Premier Cru of two acres higher up the slope from the main line of Premier Cru vineyards. That gives it a cool mineral character as well as crisp red fruits. The tannins are solid, concentrated and are still driving the fruits. The wine needs to fill out, so don't drink before 2022.
This single-parcel, partially barrel-fermented Champagne is in effect a Blanc de Noirs. If all that sounds complicated (and so does the name of the wine), the wine itself is much easier to appreciate. It is certainly rich, with a touch of tannin and mineral texture. Full of ripe white fruits, it offers good acidity at the end. It could age longer; drink from 2017.
There is a firm structure here underpinning the sweet, ripe strawberry flavors. The wine offers freshness from its berry acidity along with a final tight core of tannins. Age for 2–3 years.
Fine, solidly textured wine that has some depth of red fruit flavors as well as some sweetness. The tannin edge is on the dry side, with some obvious toast character, giving a wine that needs 2–3 years aging.
A wine that reflects the relative lightness of the reds in this vintage. It has a layer of tannins, but they don't suggest aging; they are more a base for the attractive raspberry and red plum flavor, freshened by the acidity.
An intensely wooded wine that is dominated by dark tannins. The red berry fruit is buried under the dry spice and toast character, although at the end there is a more juicy element.
A smooth, perfumed wine, with an initial barnyard character that then softens into red fruits and soft tannins. Relatively light, going more for juiciness than weight.
Lightly tannic and attractively fruity, it's ready to drink. It has a soft structure, red fruits and a finish that is full of bright acidity.
This is a beautiful, rounded and soft wine with sweet fruits and gentle tannins. Embedded in the intense fruitiness, a solid structure will help the wine age. Drink from 2016.
In this ripe wine, solid tannins are attractively balanced with red fruits. It does have a cool character from the vineyard, showing structure as well as delicious fruitiness. Drink from 2016.
From vines close to the premier crus, this is firm and solid while generous. It conveys power and structure along with a more delicious, perfumed side. Drink from 2017.
Faiveley possesses a considerable domaine in Mercurey, including vines in this premier cru. It is ripe and rounded, with jammy fruits and soft tannins. Plenty of acidity enhances red berry fruitiness and the full-bodied feel. Drink from 2015.
Firm tannins don't completely hide the bright red berry flavors of this full wine. Red cherries dominate, giving a broad feeling even while the tannic structure is still in charge. Good acidity at the end adds to the sense of aging potential. Drink from 2017.
This is a wood-aged wine that has some weight. There's a strong toast character from the wood, contrasting with the ripe plum flavor.
Powerful while still fruity, this shows acidity and notes of ripe black cherry and spice. Very structured and solid, this complete, tannin-packed wine is definitely for long-term aging.
It's rare in Burgundy that a producer can add his name to a vineyard, but Faiveley's tradition goes back at least a century. This is huge and dense; the notes of spice, sweet black plum and acidity are all comfortably balanced with the powerful tannic structure. This needs at least seven years of aging.
Big and concentrated, this is packed with tannins and solid dark fruits. It's powerful with a dark plum flavor and an impressive density of texture. Give it at least 7–10 years.
Firmly tannic and powerful, this is dominated by a plum skin texture and a spice note. It's dense and rich, with a dry structure and the acidity of the vintage showing on the finish.
This has all the elements—fruit, tannin, acidity and wood, with powerful weight and concentration. Let this age for at least eight years; this is going to be impressive.
A wine with great color, attractive smoky and red fruit flavors and a touch of tannin. It has a good structure as well, reflecting wood aging as well as fine fruit. Drink from 2016.
Pale-colored Pinot Noir that has a jammy character, this is a red fruit flavored wine that is developing fast. It has rounded tannins and a soft texture. Drink from 2015.
This is a soft wine with red-berry fruits and only light acidity. Its tannins and perfumed fruitiness are now mature. The aftertaste is elegant and easy. Drink now.
Still so young, the wine is tight at this stage. It has dark stone fruits and dense tannins along with a lightness of red berry fruits. Power and structure as well as a smoky character from 50% new wood aging.
Firm and solid with great swathes of black fruits as well as dense tannins. Ripe fruits are a major element of this concentrated wine. The wine has power and a firm tannic core, and certainly needs aging for seven years.
Tight blackberry and blueberry flavors give this wine a stalky, fruity character at the start. It's still very young, very textured, mineral and chewy. Underneath there is a more juicy fruit with a touch of herbal acidity at the end.
A rich wine with great fruits as well as structure. It has the weight and great concentration of a grand cru selection. Plum fruits and acidity offer the potential for long aging. It's powerful, while also showing elegance. Age for 6–8 years.
This wine has great power and so much complexity, with layer upon layer of fruit and structure. Black fruits give way to a dry, firm end, promising considerable aging.
This is a concentrated, dark and very closed wine. It has a tight, nervy character that allows you to feel the fruit and the texture that comes from the limestone soil. This impressive, ageworthy wine needs aging over six years and more.
This wine has a gamy character with spicy tannins. It is rich and succulent with black fruits, but has an earthy texture and is solid and powerful. It brings out both the terroir and the potential richness of a Volnay. For aging over seven years.
From the vineyards of the grand castle of Sancerre, this has rich red and black cherry fruits, a line of the purest acidity and just the right amount of tannic structure to allow it to age a little longer. It has weight and final ripeness.
Great density here, with firm tannins and big fruit flavors, very generous and opulent, while also structured. The whole wine is suffused with black plum sweetness. It is also ageworthy.
With smoky aromas and strict tannins, this is initially an austere wine. The fruit remains firm and tight, very powerful, while the final acidity gives a delicious, more juicy finale.
With some firm structure, this wine also has great fruitiness. It offers plenty of raspberry fruits, good acidity and a solid texture of tannins. The acidity keeps the wine perfumed and fresh. Drink the wine from 2019.
A perfumed village wine, this is made from four different parcels. The wine offers an attractive touch of tannin and spice to go with the forward red fruits. It should develop relatively quickly, and will be ready to drink from 2018.
Beautifully perfumed, this wine is already developing well. It presents a good balance between juicy red cherry fruits and textured tannins that support the richness. It should age further, so drink from 2018.
Structured and dark-hued, this powerful wine is dense with tannins as well as black cherry fruits. It is initially tough, but behind the solid exterior lies a warmer wine, full of delicious fruit waiting to come out. Drink from 2018.
A structured wine, this is packed with tannins as well as dark fruit and flavors from the wood aging. It is solid, backed with a concentrated, dry aftertaste with great potential. Drink from 2018.
A red-berry-flavored wine, this has juicy acidity and a light touch of tannins. It's full of fresh fruit flavors, and the finish shows a red-cherry-like crispness.
This is a tight wine, with as much acidity as fruit. The red berry flavor cuts through the crisp texture, which hints at tannins.
This firmly structured wine is packed with solid tannins as well as ripe juicy red fruits. It comes from the upper part of the Rugiens Premier Cru, one of the top sites in Pommard. Dense and needing to age, the wine will be ready from 2023.
Among the most northerly of the run of Beaune premier crus, the wine is structured but the structure is cushioned by the ripe red-berry fruits to give a generous wine. Backed by tannins, the wine will age well. Drink from 2022.
A firmly structured wine, solid with tannins and with structure. The wine is also full of fruit potential, ripe with red berries. It is dense wine that needs to age. Drink from 2025.
This is a structured wine, dark and firm as tannins meld with the ripe berry fruits. It has the weight to have great potential. The wine, with its concentration and dense tannins, will be ready to drink from 2025.
This is a ripe generous wine with soft tannins and already delicious red fruits. It lives up to the ideal of Volnay, rich and sumptuous, although with an attractive cut of acidity to balance. Drink this wine from 2022.
This wood-aged and structured wine is concentrated and dense. It comes from the Premier Cru vineyard just to the west of the village. With generous tannins and juicy ripe red fruits, the wine is broad and going to be rich. Drink from 2023.
This wine is produced from vines aged 62–88 years old. It has ripe red fruits and soft tannins creating a wine that is generous and ready to drink. It is a blend of grapes from the flat lands beyond the slopes in the Côte d'Or. The wine finishes with acidity as well as attractive fruitiness.
This is a young wine with a lean texture and stalky fruit from a Chablis-based producer. It feels cool with its acidity and red-currant fruits. Drink now.
This pale-colored soft wine has attractive fruitiness. Red fruits and a touch of spice are linked with gentle tannins. The wine is already gaining maturity and should be drunk now.
An impressive Pinot Noir that brings out plenty of the varietal's characteristics: the strawberry fruit flavors, the structure and the acidity. It is from the region north of Lisbon, which has a cool maritime climate, giving the wine its depth of flavor. Age for two years.
This fruity red wine has firm tannins and juicy acidity. Its soft, rounded aftertaste makes it easy and warm.
There are dark tannins here, although they are embedded in the ripe black fruits. This wine is solid and firm, the acidity giving the essential freshness. The fruitiness and the plush texture are taking their time to show. Drink from 2020.
Perfumed and juicy, this is already an attractive wine. Fine tannins and plenty of red fruits give a fresh and structured character. With a firmer background, it will develop well. Drink from 2020.
A powerful wine, packed with solid tannins, giving rich fruit over the hard, youthful structure. Black tannins and complex bitter chocolate and acidity suggest this is a wine that still needs time to knit together. The final is big and generous.
Luscious and seriously structured, this is a wine that offers the dense texture of a Gevrey Grand Cru vineyard. It has rich fruit, touched by chocolate and licorice, as well as ripe black fruits. For aging over 4–5 years and more.
Foursquare, almost chunky, the tannins dominate black fruits, dark chocolate and spice flavors. There is considerable concentration here, along with initial high acidity. Straight from bottling, the fruit is subdued. The weight of the wine, though, confirms that this is going to be a powerhouse.
Firm and solid, this is a wine marked by blackberries, solid and dense tannins. The concentration will bring all the elements together to give an important wine, while never losing the 2008 acidity.
Soft and ripe, with a sprinkling of pepper and spice, this is a rich, gentle wine. The tannins are open, lying under the lively black and red berry fruits. It will age over the next few years, but is not for the long-term.
A powerful wine, offering a dark, textured view of Clos de Vougeot. It is muscular, packed with ripe fruit and a layer of spice and wood. Black plums and prunes provide extra, delicious flavors.
Relatively light and fruity with tight tannins. The wine has fresh acidity that still dominates the texture. There is a delicious spicy element that edges around the tannic core. It seems firm, not yet ready to soften into middle age.
Full of fruit, this rich wine packs plums and cherries into a style that is sumptuous, with great ripeness. The tannins are soft, sweet and roll well into the rounded structure.
As so often results from this vineyard, this is a lovely wine, the fruit ripe and showing considerable sweetness as well as richness. The structure is soft, open and elegant, surrounding the core of sweet tannins. Not for long-term aging, but worth waiting 4–5 years.
Firm red currant and raspberry fruits dominate this smooth wine. The tannins, which lie underneath, give this round Pinot Noir essential firmness. This needs to age for 2–3 years.
This perfumed and wood-aged wine is so stylish. It is smooth in texture, paced with acidity and shows well-balanced red fruits. The wine finishes with fine acidity and delicious fruitiness. Drink now.
This is an attractively structured wine, with ripe strawberry and smoky wood flavors. The fruit continues through to the soft finish, which is laced with acidity and a firm tannic core.
A fruity wine from the lesser known Fixin appellation, this has strawberry fruit, soft tannins and a warm, rich texture. The acidity brings out a bright side to this approachable offering.
This is a ripe, full and fruity wine that is typical Savigny with its warm red fruits and gentle tannins. It's a rounded, already attractive wine that's full of strawberry and bilberry flavors. It can be drunk now– 2019.
This is an elegant, smooth wine that draws out the freshness of the vintage as much as the fruitiness. It has ripe, soft tannins, juicy red-fruit flavors and an intriguing smokiness. With acidity holding the wine in check, it should age well. Drink from 2017.
Already harmonious, this is a potentially opulent wine with a dry core surrounded by ripe red cherry and berry fruit. At the end, the spice adds a fuller note.
Firm in tannins, but bright with cherry fruits, this has lovely youthful acidity. Firmer tannins promise good aging over the next 4–5 years.
A structured wine, packed with red fruits and delightful acidity. There is a core of dark tannin and a solid structure as well as the bright freshness at the end. Because it has this structure, it's worth aging for 4–5 years.
This wine has great strawberry flavors with soft tannins and sweet fruits. It's fragrant, delicate, and very pure in style, with just a hint of structure and likely to age over the medium term.
This rich and structured wine is packed with both ripe black fruits and concentrated tannins. It is a big wine, a fine representation of this appellation with its dense flavors and aging potential. The wine should be ready from 2021.
The wine has a good structure with sophisticated tannins and perfumed acidity. Black cherry and spice from the wood are balanced by the freshness of the acidity and the rounded aftertaste. Drink from 2019.
Ripe tannins and rich red-plum fruits give this wine a generous rounded character. Bringing out the generosity of this vintage, the wine is a balance between the broad fruits and acidity. In the background, the tannins give the wine extra weight. Drink from 2019.
This perfumed wine comes from the home vineyard of the producer. With soft tannins and juicy red-berry fruit, the wine is straightforward, delicious and very much in the style of the vintage. It has a crisp end of acidity that gives it just the right lift. Drink from 2018.
This cool-climate Pinot Noir is soft and gentle. Its ripe tannins and cherry flavors are both lightly structured and juicy. Although still young, it's ready to drink.
While the wine is structured, it does also have plenty of ripe, juicy fruitiness that is already delicious. It's an open wine, rounded and rich in fruit flavor. The tannins are likely to smooth out soon, so drink from 2016.
Earthy aromas and a soft red fruit ripeness are dominated by wood and smoky spice. They give an unbalanced feel to the wine, not allowing much room for the potential of the fruitiness and acidity.
Produced from old vines in the Aegerter Domaine, this wine is dominated by red fruits and spice from wood aging. It is fruity, perfumed and likely to be ready to drink soon. Drink from 2018.
Produced from vineyards in the hills above the Côte de Nuits, this wine benefits from the ripe vintage of 2015. It has open red fruit and soft tannins that are both lifted by the acidity. Made to be drunk young, this is ready to enjoy now.
While it does have the structure of a Pommard, this is also a ripe, rounded wine. Its sweet red fruits surround the firm tannins offering richness. A wine that will offer sold pleasure in 3–4 years.
A beautifully perfumed wine that shows some of the structure of a Gevrey but combines this with dark rich fruits and sweet tannins. There is a smoky flavor that balances the ripe red fruits and final acidity.
A fresh wine with red cherry fruits giving a bright character, the tannins soft and with attractive acidity. It is lightly textured and should be ready to drink in 1–2 years.
Vines in the hills west of Nuits Saint-Georges are the source for this crisp red-currant-flavored wine. It has a juicy character, bright with red fruits. The wine will be ready from 2018.
Soft and fruity, this young wine is full of red fruits and attractive acidity. It has a core of tannins that will soften over the next few months. Drink from 2018.
The name indicates that this Champagne gets its delicate onion skin pink from the grape skins and not the addition of red wine, as with most rosé Champagnes. Does this make it any better? It's certainly a well integrated wine, the berry fruits very much part of the overall richness and, the acidity in a great supporting role.
This is an open delicious wine, full of red-cherry and red-currant fruit with a touch of minerality to add texture. Some wood aging has smoothed out the crisp fruit and added vanilla to the mix. Drink this ripe wine from 2018.
The wine is juicy with intense acidity. Its red-currant flavor is consistent with this acidity. Tannins are firm and will soften. The juicy aftertaste gives the wine crispness.
Very opulent, very rich, this is a complex, structured wine packed with fruit and brooding tannins. It is already rich, and will develop into a beautifully intense, concentrated and generous wine.
A sumptuous wine, rich in bright red fruits, with a structure and depth of flavor to match. The wine is gorgeously ripe, opening its heart quickly. Acidity, bitter chocolate and dark cherries go with the tannic core to promise long aging.
A structured wine, with great density of fruit, richness of  texture and at the same time acidity. Its black fruit and red berry flavors are pure and very linear while also giving the wine a full-bodied character.
A powerful, classic Chambertin, intensely structured and tannic. The sweet black fruit is potentially enormous, still finding its place among the tannins. Spice, with a mineral streak, gives the wine added complexity. Very dense in texture, this will age 10 years and many more.
A very rich wine, showing all the opulence of 2009. Black plums, damsons and wood flavors are already combined and integrated. The acidity in all this richness and power seems low, leaving the tannins to support aging.
A lightweight, dusty-smelling Pinot Noir from near Sancerre. The fruit is very soft, with the dryness giving a final firmness to the aftertaste. Flavors of red cherries have a dusty, perfumed character.
This is a hard-edged wine, a typical trait of young Pommard. It has a firm, dry and tannic character, and the ripe, generous fruit sits underneath. Wait for at least five years for this wine to be ready.
With a proportion of premier cru grapes in the blend, this wine has weight and structure as well as the ripe red-fruit flavors that are typical of Santenay. It's richly textured and full in the mouth. The finish is fruity and soft.
Just next door to the Corton Grand Cru vines, this vineyard can produce wines of equal quality. This wine certainly has something of the richness and structure, giving it concentration and longevity. Ripe red fruits are cut by dark tannins and equal acidity, allowing the wine to mature slowly and well. Drink from 2020.
This wine comes from a vineyard that is wholly owned by Chanson. It is juicy, ripe while having a great, straight line of acidity. The red-berry fruits are still developing and coming through the firm, smoky dark tannins. The wine, with its spicy aftertaste, will be ready to drink from 2020.
This rich wine is dense with dark tannins and concentrated structure. The vineyard, with cool winds from the valley behind, gives wines that demand aging with their tannins and fragrant fruit. The aftertaste is full of promise. Drink after 2022.
This is a rich, smoky and structured wine. Black fruit and dark tannins form a dense texture with touches of licorice, spice and dark concentration. The acidity hints at the vintage giving a touch of freshness and lift. Drink this powerful wine from 2024
This wine is perfumed with cherries and red berries. Its structure, which is certainly there, is almost secondary to this brilliant fruit. Balanced with a mineral dryness, the wine is certainly going to age into a ripe, pure-fruited wine. Drink from 2020.
A flagship of the Faiveley range, this is a structured wine with great acidity and beautiful perfumes. The wine is dense, already balanced with the red fruits shining through the tannins. It will develop slowly and will not be ready to drink before 2023.
Jessiaume is based in Santenay and the wine shows the attraction of this village at the southern end of the Côte de Beaune. It reveals soft fruit, warmed by a jammy layer of red berries and ripe acidity.
This intensely crisp selection shows its red-currant-driven acidity immediately. It is a fragrant, refreshing wine, very food-oriented with its dry character. It has touch of toast and a taut, minerally finish.
Celebrating the founding in 1875 of Antonin Rodet, this ripe, perfumed wine has red fruits that are opulent, gloriously drinkable already. It's ripe, softly textured, layered with delicate acidity.
The largest appellation in the Côte Chalonnaise produces here a foursquare, solid wine. It has red fruits, although the structure is what is dominant at this stage. There is a dry, smoky, meaty flavor that marches with the final acidity.
An earthy, racy wine, ripe with strawberries and also laced with acidity. It has some weight, softness, with a yeast character creeping in.
This is full of fruit and weighty tannins. Coming from one of the finest vineyards in Burgundy, it is going to have great power and an opulent nature. This wine also has elegance, its black fruits controlled and with a mineral edge. That doesn't take away the power, it enhances the stylishness of this grand wine. Drink from 2020.
This is powerful and rich, allowing just a note of freshness to creep into the firm structure. Dark tannins, black fruits and smoky wood flavors combine harmoniously, lending a sense of great power and long-term aging potential. Drink from 2019.
This fresh, fruity wine is full of red cherry and berry flavors. A light touch of tannin holds the fruit and acidity together. It's a fine, simple Burgundy, ready to be drunk now.
This fresh, fruity wine also has a core of smoky tannins. It is both structured and offers plenty of bright red fruits. The wine is crisp, ripe with a dry core. Drink from 2020.
Ripe and juicy, this is a delicious, red-fruit wine. Its tannic structure lies well behind the generous fruitiness. With a dense texture and good acidity, the wine will be full and rich. Drink from 2019.
This two-acre premier cru situated north of Beaune city gives smooth and rich wines. This bottling shows the acidity of the vintage while also having a full, round character, ripe with strawberries and crisp with acidity. The wine needs more time, so drink from 2019.
Irancy produces lightweight Pinot Noir, emphasizing the freshest raspberry flavors, allied to soft, dry tannins. There is a smoky element here that is attractive. The finish, with its acidity, shows the crispness of this northern production area.
A beautifully perfumed wine, this offers a line of fine tannins and brilliant aromatic fruitiness. Cherries and strawberries show strongly against a backdrop of tannins and structure. The aftertaste, still with a hint of dryness, is round with great fragrant fruit. Drink from 2019.
Big, firm and dense, this is a powerful wine, with dark tannins that give a dry, concentrated character. The juicy plum and damson fruit flavors, along with the fresh aftertaste, will be a delicious balance as the wine develops. Drink from 2020.
Smoky aromas hint at a wine with a strong sense of structure and weight. It is concentrated, still full of tannins, dark tension and acidity. Rich strawberry fruits are just a hint at the moment, leaving a wine with power and longevity. Drink from 2019.
This is an earthy wine that shows a rustic character. Still youthful, its fruit is obscured behind a dry, tannic, burnt-toast character. There is a future for this wine, as it should integrate with age, so don't try to drink until 2016.
Some firm tannins lie at the back of this dry, solid wine. It has dark plum fruits, juicy acidity and a fresher aftertaste. It's balanced and needs a little aging. Drink from 2017.
Fresh and juicy, this is a soft and rounded wine. It has gentle tannins, along with stylish acidity and red fruit flavors. Already, it is becoming drinkable, so don't expect the wine to age over the long term. Drink from 2016.
Set at 1,000 feet, the vineyard of Les Mouchottes inevitably produces cool and crisp wines with tangible acidity and strong red currant fruitiness. It's attractive and light, with a bright, fragrant aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
This is a warm and round wine from Irancy, southwest of Chablis. Red fruits are sustained by some wood aging that smoothes out the stalky texture and spice. It's a wine that could age another couple of years to soften it further.
While it does have some of the typical Volnay plumpness, this is a light wine that offers sweet strawberry fruits and a strand of acidity. At the end, red currant acidity delivers an attractive fresh aftertaste. Drink from 2016.
At this stage, the wine is all dark structure and very firm. It will need time to develop its full potential as an intensely rich wine. Concentrated and firm, it is powered by tannins as well as sweet red fruits. So age for five years at least.
The wine is dense with fine concentration and a solid dry tannin character at the back. It is full of black fruits and balanced acidity. Its richness reflects the quality of the vintage and its aging potential. Drink from 2022.
This is a ripe wine, soft on the normal tannins of this appellation and big on the black-cherry and berry fruits. It does have a firm core, cushioned by the generous fruitiness. Drink this wine from 2020.
A ripe and full wine, packed with fruit. It has a toasty character, spice and bright red-berry fruits that give the wine its crisp acidity and balance the riper smooth texture that is developing. Give this wine until 2022.
Soft and ripe, this is a broad wine. Its tannins are enveloped by the rich plum and damson fruit flavors. It combines the richness of the vintage with the softness of a Savigny in an already delicious whole.
A curious wine that has little connection with Pinot Noir tastes. It has red fruits, hints of cherry, but for the rest is an attractive red wine and no more.
This fresh wine is all about fruit. Soft tannins and attractive strawberry flavors are lightly cut with acidity. Coming from vines between 50 and 60 years of age, it has some extra concentration. Drink this fragrant wine now.
This premier cru, surrounded by grand cru vineyards, has produced a luscious, ripe wine. It's generous in both black fruit flavor and structure, showing great potential for aging. Drink from 2021.
Hugel has always made a benchmark Pinot Noir. This has weight and richness. It does have a strong wood content that provides some bitterness, though it is rounded out by the note of ripe red plum, lifted by final acidity.
As often in Alsace Pinot Noir, the wine has too much wood for its fruit. What fruitiness it has—bitter cherries and red berries—is smothered by high toast giving a dry, edgy aftertaste.
Definitely wood-aged, this seriously toasty wine seems to have lost its fruit along the way. It gives a hard and tough character that is partly redeemed by juicy acidity at the end.
A red wine that relies on its fruitiness to succeed. Red berries and plums show strongly, aided by acidity. The texture has a stalky character with a bitter green herb aftertaste. Drink now.
With its attractive red-fruit flavors, this is a light, perfumed wine. It has spice, fine acidity and a smooth texture that is just lifted by tannins. Drink now.
This is a ripe, smoky and generous wine. It has spice and wood flavors that are balanced with the red berry and cherry fruits and the crisp acidity of the vintage. With its rich character, it will age gently over the next few years and be ready to drink from 2018.
In the past, there was much more red wine than white wine produced in Chassagne-Montrachet. This firm, tannic wine, with its austere fruit, shows a similarity to Pommard. This is a wine that needs to age for over several years in order for it to soften and become round, and for the red berry fruit to surface.
A fruity wine, this has exuberant red-berry flavors that suggest this wine can be consumed now. Gentle tannins balance the fine acidity and rich, warm texture.
Savigny-lès-Beaune often shows the softer side of Pinot Noir. This wine has juicy red-cherry and raspberry flavors that balance the gentle, dry tannins. The low-yielding old vines from which the fruit was sourced give this selection extra concentration. This will benefit from medium-term aging.
Located on a high slope in Marsannay, the Vaudenelles Vineyard creates structured wines. This selection has a beautiful perfumed character, and it offers delicious red-berry flavors and lively acids that are striated by minerality.
This is a smooth and polished wine, with herb and new wood aromas. It has juicy red-berry flavors, and the tannins push forward. Structured, with intense acidity, this is ready to age for at least 5–6 years.
An old-vine wine, this is powerful, concentrated and impressively dense for a Marsannay. It is full of red plum and berry flavors, plus firm tannins that suggest this could age for several years.
This is a beautiful, ripe and floral wine. It does have structure although the main focus is on the rich, juicy fruit. Berries and red plums push through the rounded tannins. It will age magnificently, with great richness.
Big, juicy and smoky, this powerful wine comes from vines in the center of the vineyard. Black fruits and firm tannins dominate the richness of the wine with its dark structure and concentration. A touch of chocolate and licorice partners with the generous fruits. Drink from 2024.
This wine comes from a vineyard surrounded by Grand Crus. It delivers a huge, smoky palate that is firm with tannins and dense with structure and fruit. The wine is rich, still shot through with the freshness of the vintage. Black fruits are balanced by the dry core of the wine. It will age well, and should not be drunk before 2022.
Ripe and generous, this floral wine is dense with fruit as much as tannins. It is full of blackberry and plum flavors, ripe while also cut with acidity. The spice that comes from the wood aging shows well, adding a further element. Drink the wine from 2022.
This wine is already well balanced. Ripe strawberries and red cherries are shot through with the acidity of the vintage. The tannins are present, complementing the already attractive fruits. The aftertaste shows the considerable potential with its tannins. Drink from 2020.
This is a rich wine from several parcels of vines in the Clos de Vougeot. It has great intensity, powered both by tannins and by the dark black fruits. Serious and concentrated, the wine will age magnificently. Drink from 2024.
One-quarter of the Clos des Maréchaudes is classified Grand Cru, as the soil and the slope change. This shows in the power of the wine with its smoky tannins and dark character. Black fruits and a dense texture signify a wine with power and longevity. Drink from 2022.
With crushed strawberry and caramel flavors, this is relatively light wine, though elegant and pierced with acidity. Milk chocolate and soft tannins complete an attractive ensemble.
The relatively unknown Pezerolles Vineyard is at the far northern end of Pommard, touching Beaune above Les Epenots. It produces wine that seems softer than many Pommards, with rich fruit, the tannins firm but definitely playing second fiddle. It is the smoky plum fruit with just a dash of acidity that makes this immensely pleasing.
With its sweet wood, dense fruit and jammy character, this is a rich wine. It has some solid tannins, but they are almost lost in the welter of soft strawberry, nutmeg and juicy red berries. Typically with 2005, this is a wine whose opulence appeals now, but those tannins do suggest some good aging.
Light in color, this rejoices in its perfumed character as much as its fruit. There is a heady smoky aroma, while the palate shows a leaner character. The fruit flavors of red berries are given an extra dimension by the smoky wood and the meaty edge.
The instant appeal of seductive Pinot Noir is here, with its ripe fruits that are poised between sweetness and a pure line of acidity. The fruit is juicy, but always fresh, with wild strawberry flavors and just some spice from wood.
Exhibiting all the ripeness and richness of an Aloxe-Corton, this wine revels in delicious raspberry fruits, topped with red currant acidity. The wine rolls around the mouth, with a velvet texture on top of some firm tannins. There is a complex sweet and sour aftertaste, as the ripe fruit combines with fresh acidity.
Soft, sensuous, this is a wine that appeals straight away to the senses. The red fruits float over a soft texture of sweet tannins, leaving a juicy, succulent texture. While it is not a powerful wine, it offers all the delicious characters of Pinot Noir.
This comes from one of the Premier Crus that line the lower slopes of the hill of Corton. It has weight, richness and a densely tannic character that promises aging. Its packed red fruits are cut with juicy acidity as well as a firmer structure and dark-berry flavors. This finely perfumed wine needs to age, so drink from 2018.
This wine is soft, with attractive, aromatic red fruits. It has the round, ripe feel typical of the village, with just a tannic touch to keep it together. At the moment, the wine is all fruit and acidity, and it needs to develop further to bring out its secondary flavors. Drink from 2017.
Rather lean and austere, this is a tight, structured wine. Its future lies in the firm tannins and the juicy red-currant fruit. Wait for this wine and don't drink before 2020.
Bottled in a replica of a 19th-century crystal carafe, this wine is a blend of crus from the Montagne de Reims. On the dry side of brut, it has a lively sliced apple and citrus character as well as refreshing, lively acidity. The wine is ready to drink.
A crisp, red-currant flavored wine, this offers bright acidity and an attractive tangy texture. In its hallmark De Venoge carafe bottle, it is pure Pinot Noir with the addition of red wine from Pinot Noir to give its pale salmon-pink color. Drink now.
This light pink wine is warm, ripe and red-fruit flavored. It is soft and creamy with just the right amount of acidity. There's a refreshing, light aftertaste.
With just a touch of bitterness and structure, this is a finely textured wine. It has plenty of fresh red and white fruit flavors, a lively, busy mousse and a tight acidity on the finish.
This vineyard is widely regarded for its quality worthy of grand cru status, and this wine, from vines owned by Louis Jadot, is a fine example. It is both structured and richly fruity—dense with ripe red fruit flavors cut with acidity. A dry core of tannins will allow this impressive wine to age. Drink from 2024.
This wine has distinct acidity, probably too much. Red currant fruits dominate, giving the wine elegance, but also showing some unripe fruit flavors and a texture that is too light and unfocused.
A light, fresh wine, with flavors of crushed strawberries. There is sweetness, softness, and a rounded aftertaste. Screwcap.
Old vines always add some concentration to a wine, and this firm and dark wine is no exception. It's also juicy and fruity with a full character that is already attractive but should age well over 4–5 years.
The wine has weight, and dense tannins at this stage. What does give it a hint of Volnay's generosity is the warm, full fruit that is behind the structure. It's obviously going to need at least three years to soften out into a more rounded wine.
Structured wine, with firm tannins as well as a light touch of wood aging. It's a fruity wine, raspberry fruit cut with taut acidity. It can be drunk now for its fruitiness, but would be better allowing the tannins to soften. So drink from 2015.
This wine is soft, with a light fruitiness and earthy flavors typical of some Pinot Noir. The tannic element gives a dry core to this simple, fruity wine. Drink now.
This rich and structured wine is packed with both ripe black fruits and concentrated tannins. It is a big wine, a fine representation of this appellation with its dense flavors and aging potential. The wine should be ready from 2021.
The wine has a good structure with sophisticated tannins and perfumed acidity. Black cherry and spice from the wood are balanced by the freshness of the acidity and the rounded aftertaste. Drink from 2019.
A structured wine, it has the weight and the firm tannins to give it aging potential. Black cherries, dark fruits and juicy acidity are paired with the drier tannic structure, amking for a smooth and rich wine. Drink from 2016.
Light, fruity, packed with strawberries, this is an attractive Pinot Noir. The only spoiler is the over-excited use of wood which is masking the fruit and will always be an important factor.
The largest of the four grands crus in Morey-Saint-Denis, this vineyard gives the most structured wines. This bottling, with its tannins and power, is no exception. While it shows plenty of rich black, perfumed fruit, it also has an immense structure of tight tannins are balanced by juicy acidity. Drink from 2027.
This wine produced from vines on the Corton hill is dense and dark, with great power and concentration. Its rich, dark fruit is paired with intense, juicy acidity, ensuring slow development over many years. Drink from 2025.
From one of the larger of the great grands crus of Vosne-Romanée and Flagey-Echézeaux, this is a dark, structured wine. It has power and juicy acidity that drive its black plum and berry fruit flavors. A dry core of tannins promises many years of maturing. Drink from 2026.
Next door to the top grand cru of Chambertin, this vineyard, with its east-facing exposure, is one of the stars of Gevrey-Chambertin. This vintage is hugely rich—ripe with voluminous fruit and smoky hints from the wood aging. It has density and the potential for long aging. Drink from 2025.
This grand cru bottling comes from vines owned by Louis Jadot. It's firmly structured, as befits a wine from this village, and shows a predominance of red fruit and acidity. However, with its dry core and concentration, it will need to age. Drink from 2025.
Ladoix is a forgotten Burgundy village that can offer good value. This wine with its strawberry fruits and gentle tannins fits the bill. There is a fine, ripe feel to it, and a dry edge that sets off the fruitiness.
There is some weight on this young tasting wine. The tannins are beginning to allow the red berry and damson fruits to open up. Touches of wood round it out for aging.
There's a kick of dry tannin behind this otherwise ripe wine. Raspberry flavors, red plum skins and a some bitterness add fruit and structure. It needs a year to soften out.
A lightly perfumed wine, this is soft with warm strawberry flavors. The acidity and texture play a supporting role in this ripe, light-bodied wine.
This tight wine has intense acidity, smoky tannins, a light texture and an attractive strawberry-jelly-flavored finish.
Still firm, this wine is dominated by tannin and dark fruit, with a dry core typical of this Pommard vineyard. The red and dark plum-fruit flavors are developing slowly and the wine needs time to balance. Drink from 2019.
Fragrant wine, ripely perfumed, its tannins bringing out red berry fruits and a shapely structure. It also has a fresh feel to it from the intense acidity at the end. Age for a year, but drink now.
Dark chocolate notes join acidity and ripe black fruit flavors. The wood is dominant in this relatively soft wine, although the fruit juiciness comes through well to finish.
The wine is lean, with more acidity than fruit. It does have a tannin edge that gives it structure but the fact the wine wasn't aged in wood means it lacks any depth. Drink now.
This wine is well poised between structure and fresh red fruits. A dark side of firm tannins gives a dry core to the wine, while the bright red-berry fruit is perfumed and fresh. The two elements are integrating well. Drink from 2019.
Light Pinot Noir showing an undergrowth aroma, red fruits, soft tannins and a smooth texture. It's not a wine for aging, attractive now with its rounded aftertaste.
This has ripe red fruits and soft, integrated tannins, with concentration and a voluptuous exterior. This will be ready to drink soon.
While wood aromas are prominent now, this ultimately showcase the ripe red fruits that lie underneath. It has a solid core of tannins, which is balanced by the juicy fruit. Age for 6–7 years.
This is rich, complex and full of ripe fruit. A firm structure underlies the richness, lending concentration and density. The fruit is still reticent and will show more generously in another year. Age for five years.
Solid and powerful, with a very firm character, this shows the structured, concentrated side of the vineyard, with complex acidity cutting through the dark tannins. The wine is condensed and solidly based around a firm, dry core.
Already dense, this wine seems to lack fruit. The tannins dominate at the moment along with acidity. It's likely to remain quite a tight.
They could make anything into dessert wine in Burgenland, even Pinot Noir. And this bright gold colored wine is a great success, combining the sweetness and intense acidity with just the lightest touch of tannin. Age this wine for a few more years.
From a half-acre parcel, this is a delicately structured wine. Delicious, forward red-cherry fruits are juicy and provide lift to the the firm tannins. The combination and balance of the fruit and the texture result in a wine that will age well. Drink from 2018.
This light-colored wine is attractively perfumed but with a grassy edge that suggests the fruit was underripe. Built for the short term, it will be ready from late 2017.
An attractively simple, fruity Pinot Noir. It has ripe wild strawberry and red plum flavors, spiced with a gamy edge. The wine has a light structure, and is not for aging.
Light Pinot Noir, with crisp raspberry flavors. The very fruity wine has an edge of bitterness to go with the acidity.
Already impressive, this wine shows great fruit for the vintage as well as structure. Ripe with black cherries and berries, it has all of Pinot Noir's rich juiciness, but hints of smoke add complexity as well. Structured and a shade dark, it needs time to mature. Drink from 2017.
This is a very fine, full and ripe wine. It's full of pure, dark red cherries touched with chocolate, but also quite structured. The palate is laced with acidity and a refreshing minerality. This is an impressive wine that needs aging. Drink from 2018.
This is a seriously structured, impressive wine that comes from a parcel in the center of the Clos de Vougeot. It is firm and solid—a powerhouse of richness and density—with dark tannins, ripe black fruits and tight acidity. With this kind of structure, the wine certainly needs to age, so don't drink before 2017.
Firmly tannic still, this wine is fully ripe, rich and structured. Considerably powerful, it's full of red fruits and dark plums cut with a fine line of acidity. Finishes fresh, with sweet tannins that linger. Drink this fine wine from 2017.
While soft and opulent initially, this wine reveals a structured, mineral character on the palate. Ripe red cherry and black plum flavors pair well with firm, dry tannins and hints of wood aging. This is an elegant wine that needs aging. Don't drink before 2017.
Dominated by red-currant fruits, this is a soft wine with tannins in the background. It has a toasty edge from the wood aging while leaving most of the singing to the fruit. Drink from 2021.
Produced from a parcel of less than a third of an acre, this wine comes from 30-year-old vines. It is properly dark and dense, with great tannins and rich black fruits. The 18 months in wood show in the spice and the complex texture. This serious wine will age for many years. Drink from 2024.
While the color of this wine is light, the intensity and the structure are not. It comes from 30-year-old vines, planted densely that gives the wine huge concentration. It is firm full of tannins that lie over the ripe fruit. As it develops, this wine will be sumptuous, ripe and impressive. Wait until 2023.
Produced from less than half an acre of the Grand Cru vineyard, the wine has power and dark concentration. It is a rich wine with black fruit and solid tannins that promise long-term aging. The wood aging has given the wine an even richer character, bringing out spice and licorice flavors. The wine should not be drunk before 2023.
This Grand Cru is the smallest in the village of Morey Saint-Denis, located north of the village. This wine, produced from a tiny parcel, is immensely concentrated while also having the generous fruits that are typical of the village. It is full of juicy black fruits, fine tannins and a dark, firm aftertaste. Drink from 2023.
Produced from two parcels totaling 2.8 acres, this is a properly powerful wine. It has a concentrated texture and firm tannins. They are balanced with the black fruits and strongly mineral texture of this impressive wine. Like any wine of this quality, this needs to age for a considerable period. Drink from 2024.
Fixin, the northernmost red wines on the Côte de Nuits, generally produces light wines. This is no exception; the wine is bright, very fresh, with hints of berry fruits.
Bright pink in color, this rosé is full in the mouth with red berry flavors and intense acidity. A touch of bitterness gives a sharp aftertaste.
For a Gevrey, this wine emphasizes softness rather than structure. It does have good depth of flavor and is full of acidity and red berry fruits. The wine offers pleasure now, while having medium-term aging potential.
Pure, generous, red cherry fruit scintillates over a structured wine that has dense tannins and texture. The whole is pierced with the dominant acidity of 2008.
Smoky aromas introduce a wine that is structured and concentrated, with intense fruit and acidity. Firm tannins, a subtle touch of wood and fine richness all combine mellifluously.
Produced from grapes from the island of Corsica, this soft, open Pinot Noir has some pleasing fresh berry fruits, hints of strawberries and soft tannins. Ready to drink now.
This soft, ripe Pinot Noir manages to balance the fragrant red fruits with a gentle massage of wood aging. A firm layer of tannins gives structure and it is ready to drink.
Rich, sweet and soft, with a strawberry jam character, and just the right balance of acidity.
Retaining a good sense of structure, this is also a relatively light and fresh Gevrey-Chambertin. It has plenty of raspberry and red plum flavors and lively acidity at the end. Drink from 2015.
Light, bright and fruity, this has soft tannins, plenty of red fruits and balancing acidity. Just dry to finish, it is ready to drink now.
Drouhin has significant holdings in a number of top Chambolle vineyards. This wine is a blend from other Premier Crus in the same village. It has the typical generous character along with a more serious structured backbone that gives a dry and solid density that's worth aging. Drink from 2017.
The wine is stalky with tight tannins and just a touch of spicy wood. It has acidity, bitter cherry fruits and structure. Drink now.
Warm and rounded wine, with almond flavor and the ripe red fruits to go with the intense and balancing acidity. The wine is rich, while also well textured, giving fine final acidity.
Benefiting from the ripe 2009 vintage, the wine shows more ripe fruit than is usual from the Hautes-Côtes. It has rich strawberry flavor along with acidity. The soft tannins add a light sense of structure.
From a number of Premier Cru vineyards, the wine is solid and dark. Firm, dry tannins still dominate and give promise for aging. At the same time, black plum fruit flavors show a riper side and add richness to the mix. Drink from 2016.
The wine is young and still firm with dry tannins. It has really fresh red-berry fruits that are going to need time to broaden out. For now, the wine shows the fruitiness of the vintage and with a solid texture for aging. Drink from 2017.
Dark colored wine, which translates into richness and flavors of full-bodied damsons and plum fruits, with finely judged tannins and wood. Natural power, with concentration and final acidity to give just the right lift.
Expanding on their fathers' legacies, the cousins Jean-Laurent and Jean-Dominique Vacheron have a deserving reputation for their almost-Burgundian Sancerre. This latest vintage, packed with both fruit and structure, shows why. It is ripe with red cherries and dark plums laced with acidity. The wine is full of great ripe fruit and generous tannins. Drink from 2018.
The Domaine, which is based in Santenay, has produced a wine that has structure as well as ripe fruits. The combination promises good aging with the red-plum fruits likely to mellow into a rich concentrated wine. It is a wine to keep and age, and not drink before 2021.
The wine is ripe with red-cherry and plum flavors and plenty of acidity to balance. It is a rounded wine, generous with fruitiness and with a touch of tannin at the end. This is a fine village wine from this attractive appellation.
Some barrel aging has given this wine, with its already ripe fruits, extra richness. It is spicy, lifted by juicy acidity from the black cherries and plums. This is a full, warm and ripe wine that is just now ready to drink.
Very textured wine, hinting at fruit that is only just ripe. This light and fragrant wine has red currant fruits and a smoky character. Probably not for aging.
This perfumed and wood-aged wine is so stylish. It is smooth in texture, paced with acidity and shows well-balanced red fruits. The wine finishes with fine acidity and delicious fruitiness. Drink now.
Very jammy in character, this is a soft, ripe wine. It seems almost too ripe, a wine that is rounded without great texture. It will be ready to drink by the end of the year.
Still very young, it's full of acidity as well as bright raspberry fruits that give freshness. This light wine will soon be ready to drink.
A cool, elegant wine, the wood in harmony with the black cherry and mulberry fruits. The wine is properly structured and dense, the dry tannins lending great support to this fine, mineral-inspired wine.
Sweet, jammy fruit with spice from wood aging give a rich and soft wine, packed with ripeness, red cherries and blackberry. At this stage, the wood is major, and needs time to integrate.
A fine combination of tannins and ripe fruit, rich and at the same time solidly structured. The year brings out soft acidity and blackberry juice, and the wine finishes big and bold.
Groseilles is French for red currant, and there is a definite red-fruit character here, with a hint of smokiness and sweet tannins over layers of wood. The wine is still young and relatively soft, but offers aging over the next three to four years.
From Chanson's five-acre parcel of the Beaune Grèves vineyard, this is a ripe, softly tannic wine, more dominated by strawberry flavors, rich and deliciously sweet. Not for long-term aging, but worth 2–3 years' waiting.
A deliciously soft, smoky wine, the tannins a hint behind the rounded fresh berry and red-plum fruits. There is a great juicy character to go with the fresh acidity and the final, drier structure.
Fresh, simple fruits, with plum skin texture and acidity. There is a fine layer of soft tannins. A wine to drink over the next two years.
This is a finely perfumed wine, rich in both structure and ripe fruits. It is smoothly textured, a full-bodied wine that has dark cherry flavors as well as a balanced layer of acidity. The wine is still young, juicy and will develop further, so drink from 2017.
This is an unusual rosé for Champagne. It is made 100% from Pinot Noir rather than a blend. And it is made by getting color directly from the fermenting grapes rather than the normal Champagne process of adding red wine. The result is a dark-colored rosé that has a tannic structure as well as red fruits. It is rich and concentrated with ripeness rather than great freshness. It is definitely a food wine.
Firmly structured, with bitter black cherries, red berry fruits and concentrated but vibrant fruit. This is delicious Pinot Noir, not powerful, but immediately enjoyable. Aging? Maybe, but not more than 3–4 years.
A fine, elegant Pinot Noir, with juicy red fruits that roll around the mouth with freshness. While not powerful, this is delicious, cool Pinot Noir, just a touch peppery. Screwcap.
From its own estate, this Louis Latour wine is a ripe, strawberry- and juicy plum-flavored wine, sustained by a well- judged dry layer of tannins. It is sweet, the acidity showing through in the red fruits.
Soft, ripe and generous, this is a delicious, spicy wine with a backbone of great tannins. The aftertaste shows layers of acidity and fresh red berry fruits.
Very fresh, very raspberry, this wine opens gently with sweetness and roundness. The tannins do come into play, but ever so gently, a counterpoint to the sweet, fine fruits that dominate this attractive, relatively early drinking wine.
A ripe and fruity wine with light tannins, red cherry fruit and a fine line of acidity. The wine is softly textured, with just the touch of dryness at the center. Drink now and until 2017.
This ripe, full and structured wine is developing well. Rich, dark fruits come complete with juicy acidity and a complex, dense texture. Structure and fruit together promise aging and this wine will be ready to drink in 2016.
This still-young crisp wine is full of apple and citrus acidity. The mousse is lively, giving a bright character to this fruity wine. Because it is so dry, it needs another few months before drinking, so wait until 2018.
A superb wine, the tannins carrying along the dense structure with ease and grace. The purity of the ripe berry fruit is very marked, with acidity giving freshness to the sweet wine. The whole ensemble is developing well, but will need many years' aging.
This is a wonderful wine, very ripe, the blackberry and sweet fruits all here, While the tannins are solid and concentrated, they are in the center of a lush, beautifully rich series of flavors that range from fruit to licorice to spice. The wine shows great aging potential.
With entrancing smoky aromas, this is a ripe, intense and powerful wine. The tannins are dry, contrasting with the black fruit-juice flavors, black chocolate and a dry final taste. For long-term aging.
Rounded and fat, with the weight and power of white wines from Corton. The texture is taut, still very young, waiting to allow the full richness of the fruit to come through. Impressive, it needs a minimum of four years aging.
With its solidly dry tannins, this is a powerhouse, very dark in texture, very structured. The fresh fruit is just showing from all this intensity. Still very youthful, this is an impressive wine for aging over many years.
This is a big and full-bodied wine, with its tannins merging with notes of red plum fruit and spicy wood. With a generous feel, it also has a solid, powerful structure that offers the possibility of aging
A foursquare, solid wine that shows its structure right up front. It is backed by red fruits and acids that lend a warm feeling. Full and dense, this needs to age.
Bright, ripe strawberry and cherry flavors are contrasted with the firm tannins of wood aging. This is a very young wine, with layers of acidity, spice and toast. Drink from 2016.
A concentrated wine from 40-year-old vines, this is rich and dense. It has a balance between the juicy black fruits and firm tannins, the whole shot through with acidity. Drink this fine single vineyard wine from 2019.
A firmly tannic wine, with flavors of smoky wood and plum skin. Equally relying on its lean structure, acidity and fruit, this needs to age for 2–3 years.
Here is all the right Volnay richness. The tannins give the wine a firm edge, a support for the soft, opulent center. Black berry and damson flavors are dominant, offering acidity to go with the ripe texture. Age for 5–6 years.
A pale gold color leads into a wine that is mature and rich. The fruits have mellowed into almond and spice, with attractive acidity, while the ripe texture remains. The balance is just right in a wine that is generous and full in the mouth. Drink now.
Wood aging has imparted a slight bitterness to the ripe fruit. The juicy red-cherry flavor is melded into the firm tannins, and the finish is bright and round.
Made from grapes that were sourced from two parcels, this Pommard is firmly structured, and it shows fine red-fruit flavers that sit under the dark, dense tannins. It has a ripe yet minerally texture.
There is a touch of minerality in this wine as well as a dry edge and ripe red-fruit flavors that are already attractive. It should be aged at least three years.
Givry, which is located in the Côte Chalonnaise, produces wines that have warmth and a firm edge. This wine fits the style with its juicy red fruits, ripe tannins and solid, chunky finish. This is not for aging, so drink now.
Soft and opulent, relishing its rich fruits and round, velvet structure, this wine hits all the right notes. It's not all padded and soft: There are tannins there, wrapped in the richness and delicious fruit.
A bruiser of a wine: dark tannins, brawny structure, tough and hard around the edges. That said, its tannins are true to its Nuits-St.- Georges origins in its dry core surrounded by dense fruit.
There aren't many 2003 wines available today, and this raisin and red fruit flavored wine shows plenty of attractive ripe flavors. Dried fruits dominate, giving the wine a Port-like richness, the tannins now comfortably integrated in the texture.
This powerful, dense wine has a good, long journey to travel. The 20% wood aging has given a surprising amount of toastiness to the black plum fruit and intense acidity. It needs to age, so drink from 2020.
Solid and tannic, this is a full-bodied wine with potential. Ripe fruits are dense and juicy.  With both structure and fruit, this wine will develop well. Drink from 2017.
Fruity and jammy, this ripe wine has structure and acidity, along with a good depth of flavor. It will certainly age and shouldn't be drunk before 2017.
With spice and dark coffee flavors, this wine shows some wood aging. It also has considerable acidity and the brightest strawberry fruit. Lively and fragrant at the end, it can be drunk now.
Full of red fruits, it also has a strong structure and firm tannins. For now, the wine is textured and dense. It needs to age and broaden out to give a softer feeling. Drink from 2018.
Warm, ripe and rounded, this is a soft and attractive wine. It has touches of wood as well as some firm tannins that are embedded in the soft texture. It's a wine that will develop quickly and well. Drink from 2016.
A perfumed wine, it's very fresh and bright with strawberry flavors as well as a delicate touch of tannin. A delicious wine to drink now.
Vines planted between 900 and 1,200 feet above sea level give this cool interpretation of Pinot Noir. The wine is crisp, lightly structured with some tannins and with a delicate cherry and red-berry fruitiness. It will be ready to drink from 2017.
Very fresh and fruity, this wine from the north end of the Côte de Nuits has tight acidity and plenty of raspberry fruit, fragrant and perfumed. It should be ready to drink from 2017.
This south-facing vineyard has produced a well-balanced wine. The tannins are gentle, enveloped by the juicy red-fruit flavor and the mineral acidity. It is ripe, full of fruit with a crisp, tight aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
This is a warm wine with a rounded feel, making it soft and full of red fruits. It features strawberry sweetness as well as a tighter, more tannic character. It could well age, so wait until 2016.
Warm and ripe, it offers bitter cherry fruits, sweet berries and a layer of firm tannins. It's already balanced and delicious with weight and structure. At the end, it is all bright fruitiness.
The wine is named after a raspberry plantation, and that's what it tastes like. Small wild fruit, with their extra taste of ripe flesh, are in the glass along with delicious acidity. The tannins and the wood are all at the service of the fruit.
Rich and dense, revealing ripe fruit, touches of wood and firm flavors, and a delicious juicy interior which bursts through. It revels in this fruit, all red berries and fresh acidity. To finish, there is some toasty wood.
This powerful wine features wood and the ripest fruit. It also has the solid structure of a Nuits Saint-Georges, creating a wine that is dark and impressively concentrated. It offers richness while preserving the fresh fruitiness of the vintage. Drink from 2017.
In this rich, dense wine, firm tannins have already been smoothed by 50% new wood. It is solid, dark and tannic, a powerful wine that is ripe now and will reveal great fruitiness as it ages. From vines close to Volnay, it has hints of the voluptuousness of that village. Drink from 2017.
This is a soft wine on the surface, but under that generosity lies a firm core that gives the promise of aging. This powerful wine comes from stony soil which explains the tannic structure while the richness comes from ripe berry fruits. Drink from 2017.
The wine has the right weight and power. It comes from a blend of different parcels, bringing out the complexity of the vineyards. Black fruits are soft and generous, supported by tannins as well as licorice and wood flavors. At the end, fresher red fruits show.
This is a blend from ten different parcels of the Grèves vineyard. It's beautifully smooth, hiding its structure behind generous red fruits as well as a fresh, crisp texture. It's complex, warm, very perfumed and elegant. Drink from 2017.
With three acres out of 36 in this Grand Cru, Faiveley is one of the larger proprietors. The wine is firm and structured with solid tannins, while black fruits give acidity and freshness to this massive wine. Drink from 2020.
Rich and sweetly fruity, this wine wields intense power. Red fruits are initially opulent and pleasurable, but then the wine begins to show solid structure and concentration. The final texture, with its tannins and fruit in harmony, is impressive. Drink from 2018.
Perfume partners with great acidity in this wine. The two work in harmony, resulting in a wine that has a soft texture, rich, jammy berry fruits and a backbone of tannins that will allow for aging. Drink from 2017.
Structure goes with red berry fruits in this light, crisp wine. It has a tendency to a tight texture and lean tannins. Ready to drink.
Firm and tannic, this is a dense wine. Its weight and richness promise a good future. It is juicy, full of red-cherry flavors and with plenty of perfumed acidity. The wine will be ready to drink from 2023.
Red-berry fruits dominate this already delicious wine. Allied with the acidity and the toasty wood aging, it is balanced while, of course, still young. It has potential, rich with tannins and with fine fruits. The wine is structured, needing time. Drink from 2025.
Big, bold and rounded, this is a rich wine from a single vineyard. Red-plum fruits go with a plush texture that masks the firm tannins and dry core. The acidity and structure both promise long-term aging. The wine is still young, needing time. Drink this from 2022.
Structured, ripe and with great fruit, this is a bold warm wine. It has plenty of rich berry fruits, ripe tannins and layers of spice and toast. With its concentration, this is going to be a rich wine. Drink from 2022.
This is tight, with acidity that cuts through the red fruits and perfumed raspberry flavors. It is light and bright, with minimal tannin and just a hint of structure.
A big wine, with structure and fruit. The mild tannins are a counterpoint to the harmonious red berries, acidity and dense texture. Boasts a delicious, sensuous finale. For medium-term aging.
Firm and tannic, a wine that, at this stage, is putting structure before fruit. That will change over 4–5 years as the dry tannins soften into the ripe plum and cranberry juice fruits underneath. While not weighty, this is a delicious, well-crafted wine.
There is good weight here. Its richness and fruits offer light red plum textures, a dry tannic character as well as some good power. Complexity and sweetness both promote a concentrated wine.
Does the vineyard name mean “foggy” as its etymology suggests? The wine certainly has a cool character for normally generous Volnay. But it is finely structured, the delicate tannins offering a balance to the more forward black fruits. There is a fine fresh, dry aftertaste.
This wine is perfumed, with delicious notes of plum and spice that are balanced by light tannins and fine, elegant acids. A touch of mineral marks the finish.
Rich, elegant and classic, this wine is made from fruit sourced from old vines—some as much as 70 years old. It has a tannic structure, but the dominant elements are the dense red- and black-plum flavors, which are supported by the wine's acids. Age it for 5–6 years.
This is a structured, fruity wine that has ripe strawberry and red plum flavors. Its tannins are condensed at the core, and the finish is marked by refreshing acidity. The vineyard is wholly owned by Faiveley.
Showing the structure of Gevrey-Chambertin and the ripe fruit of the 2009 vintage, this bottling is immediately opulent and seductive. With its red plum flavor and balanced tannins and acids, this is a solid wine to drink now.
This wine has equal amounts of ripe berry fruit and structure. There is a smoky character, wood and spice notes, balanced acidity and a leather-like touch to the texture. It is slowly developing, and it has the potential to be rich. Age this for 6–8 years.
From vineyards owned by the Gagey family, this wine is ripe, easy to drink and full of fruit. Its strawberry and red cherry flavors are lifted by acidity and grounded in balancing tannins. It is made to be drunk young and will be ready from late 2017.
This is a smooth wine with gentle tannins and red berry fruit. It has juicy acidity and a slight toastiness from oak. With spice and acidity, it will be an attractive wine to drink from 2018.
Maturing well, this ripe red-berry flavored wine is soft and rounded. It has just a hint of tannins and wood along with generous ripe fruitiness. The wine is full bodied, likely to be ready to drink from 2018.
Very young, this firm, structured wine has dense tannins and a dry core. All of this will open up to bring in the red fruits waiting behind this formidable facade. It needs to age, so drink from 2019.
This wine is still young, tight and on the crisp acid side. That doesn't mean it won't soften and fill out, although it will probably stay ultrafresh and packed with red-currant flavors for some time. Wait to drink until 2018.
A deliciously light, fresh rosé, its crisp raspberry flavors enhanced by acidity. The finish is a full burst of fruit salad.
Lively and juicy, this is packed with fresh red cherry fruits, red currants and some wood. It's round, soft, only lightly tannic.
Light in color while full of fruit, this is a ripe and jammy wine. A good core of tannins are surrounded by ripe cherry and strawberry-flavored fruits. There is a good future for this dense wine, so drink from 2017.
Earthy and rustic, this intensely tannic wine has a dry character. The fruit is all there, hiding behind this rough exterior. Allow the wine time to soften out and drink from 2018.
A perfumed wine, this has light tannins and fresh berry fruits. It is ripe with a fragrant floral character that's enhanced by the acidity and pure cherry flavors. The wine can be drunk now, but will be better from 2017.
This is a blend from several Grand Crus on the Corton hill. It is rich and spicy, with great black fruits and solid tannins. A powerful wine, it's shot through with acidity and black-plum fruits throughout the structure. Drink from 2023.
Powerful and complex, this dark wine comes from vines at the heart of appellation, rich and dense. It offers the potential of great fruit, rich acidity and considerable structure, and will develop giving richness and long aging. Drink from 2023.
Wood aged for 12 months, this dense and structured wine comes from a small parcel of vines in the Clos de Vougeot. It is perfumed, ripe with a solid series of tannins as well as red-berry fruits. The acidity is typical of the vintage, and, along with the tannins, will allow this powerful wine to age well. Drink from 2022.
The immense walled vineyard of the Clos de Vougeot gives so many styles of wine from its 80 growers. This version is already relatively soft with as much generous fruit as tannins. Some high-toast oak flavor needs to integrate, while showing great density and concentration. With power behind it, the wine will age seriously. Drink from 2023.
From three different parcels in this large Grand Cru vineyard, this wine is dense and concentrated. Powerful tannins will develop into rich fruits with great intensity. This wine, with its weight, needs time. Drink from 2023.
A ripe, juicy and fruity wine, this is rich while shot through with fresh acidity. A dusty smoky structure awaits behind the fruit. It will become a well-balanced wine, packed with fruit and supple tannins. Drink from 2020.
This monopole vineyard came into the Bouchard family in 1791, 60 years after the maison was founded. This wine is smoky and full of fruit and sweet tannins. With its balanced tannins and rich fruits, it is developing well. The dense structure behind the fruit promises good aging. Drink from 2020.
Typically rich, this Pinot Noir-based Champagne is ripe with red apple, quince and plum flavors. The fruit is balanced by the steel and mineral edge that gives the wine a tight texture.
This is firmly structured, and it shows the earthy fruit character of Savigny. The red plum flavor is cut with acidity. It's worth aging for 2–3 years.
This is a cool Pinot Noir with flavors both of red fruits and the wood aging. It is smooth with red-cherry fruit and gentle tannins and acidity. The wine, from vineyards on the slopes of Puy de Dôme mountains, is ripe and ready to drink.
Made from grand cru Pinot Noir, this wine is beautifully balanced as well as fruity. Signs of maturity add flavors of croissants to the textured white fruits. The wine has concentration and a tight, tangy, mineral aftertaste that balances its riper side. Drink now.
Made from Pinot Noir grown in the Aube village of Les Riceys, this deep-colored rosé is rich with red fruits and as well as a more mature, toasty character. It's spicy, full in the mouth and ripe. The aftertaste continues the full, generous character of the wine.
This is a rich, rounded wine with pure red berry aromas. The initially soft tannins has a dryness that creeps up as the fruit increases in its richness. Layers of wood spice support the fruit rather than dominating.
A soft and light Pinot Noir with attractive strawberry acidity and cherry fruit flavors. An earthier backdrop balances the hint of tannin.
This single-vineyard wine is a showcase of ripeness—fruity and smooth with great plum and wild strawberry flavors. It's intensely structured and dense on the palate, however, making it a wine for aging. Drink from 2016.
This is an attractive red-fruit flavored wine with fine acidity as well as juicy berries and cherry. Its soft tannins are just right to sustain the delicious fruitiness. Dink this wine from 2017.
This is a lighter style of Pinot Noir than some produced in Sancerre today. It brings out perfumes and red-cherry flavors lifted by acidity. The wine is fruity, with hints of wood aging and a juicy aftertaste. Drink now.
There is a firm, dry core to this attractively spiced wine. Blackberry fruit is fleshy, ripe, although with a considerable amount of acidity. It's a wine that is structured, finishing with chewy plum skin flavors.
This intensely perfumed, delicate style, with some tight tannins from the fruit, is full of red currant and plum skin tannins, lifted by fresh acidity and finished with hedgerow fruit flavors.
From 100% Pinot Noir, here is a delicious, crisp, wild raspberry- and mulberry-flavored wine. The acidity shines through the fruit skin texture, giving a mouthtingling feel.
Firmly tannic, solid and chunky wine. The ripe strawberry flavors are balanced by firm tannins and a dark edge of plum skins. Should be aged for another year.
Red cherries and jelly fruits highlight a wine that is ripe and soft. A hint of acidity puts the sweetness into attractive relief.
A strangely spicy aroma is followed on the palate by very dry tannins, which dominate the red fruits. The wine has some potential, but has obviously come from grapes that are on the tart side. The finish has high acidity.
A wine that seems to take the softness of Chambolle-Musigny too far. It has sweetness and flavors of raspberry juice, leaving no room for structure or acidity. Drink now, because this wine is too open to last.
The light, stony soil of Les Lavières produces structured, tight and firm wines, unlike many of the softer wines from Savigny. With new wood and licorice flavors, it is darkly textured and firm. The red fruits are still developing, showing the rich potential of the wine. Drink from 2017.
From slopes above the village of Gevrey-Chambertin, this densely tannic wine has a powerful structure that brings out the wood and adds licorice flavors to the bitter cherry fruits. At the end, the year's signature freshness shows more strongly.
From vines averaging 50 years of age, this is powerful, ripe and concentrated. It has dark black fruits, red berries that give acidity, and a richly fruity structure. It punches well above its village appellation. Drink from 2017.
This textured wine shows wood flavors from its 30% new wood. To balance it has great ripe fruits and a tight texture of acidity. The wine is still nervy, closed up with minerality. It needs time, so drink from 2016.
Produced from old vines, this textured, solid wine has a tight and firmly tannic character. Underneath, red cherry fruits are already releasing a fragrant side and the potential of bright fruitiness. Drink from 2016.
From vines just to the north of Nuits Saint-Georges, this firm and structured wine features ripe fruits, red berries and bitter cherry flavors. Both dark in texture and perfumed, it's powerful and does need some aging. Drink from 2017.
The 60% new wood aging is showing strongly in this structured wine. Rich and rounded, it offers hints of spice, red cherry fruits and a firmly, tannic edge. The aftertaste brings out a jammy richness. Drink from 2017.
The grapes to make this rich, ripe wine were sourced from vines that were planted in the 1980s. The vineyard, which is located next to Bonnes Mares, yields wines that have an open, generous style, plus elements of structure that lend aging potential. Ready to drink in two years, but it should age well for many more.
With its firm tannins and structure, this is a wine that's made in the traditional Nuits-St.-Georges style. But it's also packed with ripe red fruit, and it has a jammy character and an open feel. There is no doubt that this is a wine to age for at least five years.
With its firmness and juicy red-fruit flavor, this wine is delicious to drink now, but it will also age for at least six years. This bottling demonstrates the structure and generosity of one of Beaune's most famous premier crus.
Big and smoky, it discloses fruit as well as solid tannins. The wine has power and density, with black fruits that show sweetness. It will be delicious but the structure does need to soften first. Drink from 2017.
Ripe and fruity, it shows both good acidity and attractive tannins. It has weight, red cherry flavors and a structure that supports the fruitiness. It's delicious but needs more time. Drink from  2017.
Rich as well as structured, it's ripe and already delicious. Berry and cherry fruits are nicely surrounded by both acidity and tannins. Full in the mouth, it's going to be an estimable wine. Drink from 2017.
This has strawberry aromas with a fresh, creamy texture and a light touch of tannin. The wine is warm, rounded and fruity, with a soft, smooth finish.
Full, ripe and spicy, this has flavors of meat and wild strawberry. It is dense, with bright acidity and enough tannin for structure.
The wine has tannins and a dry core that is fleshed out with red-berry fruits. At three-years-old it is already maturing with a rustic edge as well as spice and berry fruits. This is ready to drink.
For a wine from this appellation, this is surprisingly soft. It has black fruits and tannins that are already softening. Spice and berry fruits are lifted by acidity. This fruity wine will be ready to drink from late 2017.
Soft and warm, this wine originates from the northern end of the Côte de Nuits. It has wild-raspberry and dark cherry flavors balanced with elegant acidity. It's wine that will age quickly, so drink from 2014.
Delicately perfumed with bright red-fruit aromas, this is a light, fruity, forward wine that is ready to drink now. Acidity cuts through the palate and soft tannins linger on the finish.
Soft fruit that shows velvet tannins and a full, ripe red berry character. There are milk chocolate and bitter cherry flavors and very fresh acidity, all comfortably integrated, just finishing with an edge of pepper.
An unusual Nuits-St.-Georges. Normally the wines are dark, dry and tannic. But this is fruity, light, fresh. With its vibrant red fruits, it seems very out of character, if pleasing.
Lightly perfumed, this wood-aged wine has soft tannins and an unfocused character, which brings spice as well as green fruits. The aftertaste is taut and earthy.
Smooth and perfumed, this has a delicious, ripe black-fruit character. It is full of wood, spice and smoky tannins that demand aging. The wine is dense and layered with acidity as well as beautiful fruitiness. Drink from 2018.
This wine has the proper power and structure of Gevrey, with firm tannins under the ripe red berry and cherry fruits. There is great juicy acidity as well as a firmer structure that will let the wine age. Drink from 2017.
The vineyard of the medieval Château de Mercey has produced a fully structured, fully fruity wine in 2010. It has ripe berry fruits, layers of acidity and a firm core of tannins. It should age over the next 3–4 years.
This is showing a mature, browning color. The palate echoes that it is just beginning to dry out, although for the next year or two it will still be a delicious, mature wine. The tannins are dark, with some sweetness as well as final acidity.
Typical Pommard, with its initially severe tannins. The wine then shows its potential for rich fruit, in its round plum flavors, the tannins offering support. It is a concentrated, chunky wine, the final acidity adding freshness.
Rich, intense red-fruited wine, soft and voluptuous. The tannins are folded into the ripe fruits, giving a very approachable feel. The acidity is prominent at this stage but should soften in a year or two, and the wine is certainly worth aging.
Perfumed and fruity, this is a gentle, lightly structured wine. It has red fruits, soft tannins and plenty of bright acidity. It's not a wine for long aging and can be drunk now–2018.
A wine from a tiny premier cru that is literally situated at a crossroads. It displays the smoothness and richness that come with wood aging, as well as concentrated tannins to support the generous fruit. Black plums and strawberries give a dense wine that will age. Drink from 2018.
From vines just below the line of Grand Cru vineyards, this is a big and powerful expression of Pinot Noir. It is dense with firm tannins that are embedded in the ripe black fruits. It's a complex wine, serious while still fruity, and needing to age. Drink from  2018.
This iconic wine is rich and perfumed. It's powerful and concentrated, with layers of wood contrasted by explosive, ripe fruits. Ripe red-fruit flavors are brightened by ample acidity, resulting in a sumptuous wine that also has enough tannins to age. Drink from 2018.
This wine is initially tight and austere. The red-cherry fruit will develop slowly and with bright acidity to sustain it. Drouhin vineyards are biodynamic; this blend comes from its own and partner vineyards. Drink from 2018.
This wine is surprisingly soft for a Pommard. Juicy red fruits have been spiced by the wood aging. It is light, gently crisp and ready to drink.
Bright red berry and cherry fruits are well up front in this wine that has crisp acidity as well as a more rounded background that will develop well. Juicy and fruity, the wine will be ready to drink from 2018.
This ripe, concentrated wine has rounded tannins plus a structure that gives weight as well as richness. It comes from vines close to Morey Saint-Denis. The richness promises good aging. Drink from 2017.
This wine is smoky, ripe and packed with tannins. The fruit gives the wine weight although it is not yet fully developed. There is a toasty background to this rich wine with its juicy red-berry fruits and acidity. Drink from 2019.
This finely balanced, juicy wine is full of red-fruit aromas and brisk acidity. Juicy and bright with strawberry flavors and refreshing acidity, it's a value wine with great potential. Drink from 2015.
Soft red fruits dominate this only lightly structured wine. It is more about juicy Pinot Noir, fruity with raspberry and red-currant flavors. Dryness at the core of the wine adds shape. The wine is ready to drink.
With its light color and cool feel, this well-balanced wine comes from a parcel of 30-year-old vines. The smoky tannins and intense acidity give a wine that will develop well and slowly. It's still young with its red-berry fruits and fresh aftertaste. Drink from 2018.
The wood aging dominates this toasty, burnt-flavored wine. The light stalky fruit barely shows. Maybe when the tannins soften in 2015, it will be more approachable.
A structured wine, packed with red fruits and delightful acidity. There is a core of dark tannin and a solid structure as well as the bright freshness at the end. Because it has this structure, it's worth aging for 4–5 years.
A lightly perfumed wine, this is soft with warm strawberry flavors. The acidity and texture play a supporting role in this ripe, light-bodied wine.
Based in Nuits-Saint-Georges, Manuel Olivier has made a specialty of the wines from the Hautes Côtes in the hills behind the city. This is a light and fruity wine with freshness and some firm, dry tannins, although it's ready to drink now.
A light, perfumed wine with soft tannins and bitter cherry fruits. There is an earthy edge here, and while the wine has brisk acidity, there's an easy texture. It's ready to drink.
Tannins and a red berry flavor combine in this soft wine. It has the structure of the vintage, with a firm core; the fruit and acidity developing slowly. Keep for 2–3 years.
Lively, fresh and very clean, this has bright acidity and an attractive touch of strawberry. It's dry, with a crispness that balances the rich fruit.
An attractively light-textured wine, this has a red currant flavor backed by juicy acidity. It is forward and fruity; with its gentle tannins, this is ready to drink.
There is rich fruit behind the severe opening tannins, giving a sumptuous although firmly structured wine. The raspberry and crushed strawberry flavors are developing well, ready to balance with the tannins after another year.
For a Volnay, this is a very structured wine. It has huge richness laced with firm tannins and dark fruits. It is the firmness that dominates, suggesting some extra extraction, although the acidity does push right through to the finish.
This is a surprisingly fine reminiscence of Burgundian Pinot Noir, from the perfumed red fruits to the generous tannins. The wine has acidity and, despite its alcohol, has a fresh feel. The wine is at its most fruity stage and will age another year, so drink from 2017.
This is a ripe, jammy wine with red plum and sweet strawberry fruits that are cut by both the acidity and the toasty tannins. Although ripe, the wine offers attractive juicy freshness. The aftertaste brings out more of the tannins.
Intensely perfumed, this wine has soft tannins and a smooth, red-fruit-dominated texture. From a 3.5-acre premier-cru vineyard, it is ripe while light in character, suggesting it will age smoothly and quickly. The wine is almost ready now, although it will be best from 2018.
This wine is smoky, ripe and packed with tannins. The fruit gives the wine weight although it is not yet fully developed. There is a toasty background to this rich wine with its juicy red-berry fruits and acidity. Drink from 2019.
Showing acidity and a structured, dry character, this is a lean wine. Its tannins are dominant, along with vivid red currants and and an austere texture. Drink from 2017.
This wine is tight and tannic, firm and missing fruit. It seems to have been heavily extracted, giving a bitter character to the wine. It could soften, although that is difficult to imagine.
This beautifully perfumed wine offers an appealing combination of red berry fruits, fragrant acidity and a firmer, dry background. The wine is already deliciously juicy and fruity, although its dry tannins and concentration promise further aging. Drink from 2018.
Pure strawberry and red cherry fruits with a twist of acidity make this a wine that is already delicious. Just under the surface is a firm wood-and-tannin character and a dense, if juicy, structure. Age for 4–5 years.
Big, tannic and fruity, giving an intense structure of black plums laced with sweet raspberries. It exudes richness and power, generous while also firm.
This wine is initially austere, but then shows rich, ripe fruit and a solid structure. The wine's strong tannic character suggests considerable aging potential, while it already shows a deliciously gentle side.
From young vines in Chambertin, this is big and generous, showing the richness of the year as well as its depth of fruit. Firm tannins help to give the wine shape.
This structured wine also has already delicious red fruit flavors. The core of tannins is surrounded by this cushion of ripe fruits, layered with acidity and altogether enticing now. Drink now, although the wine will certainly age.
Attractively ripe, this has a dense texture that's full of red fruits and soft tannins. With its richness, it is delicious and ready to drink now.
With its bitter cherry flavors and light, smoky tannins, this perfumed wine has a richer juicy element in the background. Lightly textured, it's more about fruit that is up front and refreshing. Drink now, although the wine will be better from 2017.
This perfumed wine has a rustic edge that should blow away as the wine matures. For the fruit, it is red-berry time: bright, soft and lifted by gentle tannins and lively acidity. The wine will improve for a few more months, so drink from late 2017.
At the southern end of Nuits Saint-Georges, this vineyard produces a ripe and full style of wine. This wine has those characters along with the tannins and the acidity of the vintage to produced a juicy wine that will age well. The aftertaste keeps that crunchy, crisp character. Drink it from 2019.
Produced from 65-year-old vines, this is a rich and perfumed wine from the estate of Nicolas Potel. It is structured, balancing the red fruits and acidity with a solid framework of tannins. Spice from the wood aging shows lightly, while the wine finishes with crisp red-currant acidity.
Smoky aromas and wood flavors are still dominant in this wine even after five years. It does have some concentration and red-berry fruits, although the structure and the tannins are still firm. The wine should age further to allow the fruit to mature and shine. Drink from 2019.
In the prestigious village of Vosne-Romanée, there is little room for anything but Grand and Premier Cru vineyards. This wine, from the flatter ground at the bottom of the slope, shows something of the structure that makes the great wines. To balance that it also has bright fruit and plenty of acidity. It will be ready to drink from early 2018.
This village wine comes from a parcel of low-yielding 70-year-old vines. It is firm and concentrated with a strong layer of tannins over black fruits. Blackberry and black plum are balanced by the acidity. Together with the tannins, they promise aging. Drink from 2018.
Rather lean and austere, this is a tight, structured wine. Its future lies in the firm tannins and the juicy red-currant fruit. Wait for this wine and don't drink before 2020.
The wine is young and still firm with dry tannins. It has really fresh red-berry fruits that are going to need time to broaden out. For now, the wine shows the fruitiness of the vintage and with a solid texture for aging. Drink from 2017.
While this wine certainly has a tannic background, it is already showing fruitiness and ripe berry and red plum flavors. That makes for a warm, rounded wine that will age relatively quickly. Drink from 2016.
This structured wine also has bright red fruits and juicy acidity. It's an attractive bottle now, the tannins showing through while leaving room for an elegant, leisurely aftertaste. Drink from 2015.
There is a fine perfumed character with this wine. It floats above the ripe cherry and berry fruits and the firm structure of rich tannins. The vineyard, centrally located in Nuits-Saint-Georges, has given a firm wine with the great potential to be generous. Drink from 2021.
Bold and ripe, this is a rich wine. It has great red-cherry and berry fruits that are filled out by the dry core of tannins. It comes from a vineyard that is close to the premier crus of Beaune and it has something of the extra structure and texture of that appellation. That means it will need to age. Drink from 2022.
Translated, the name of this vineyard means fogs, maybe a reference to a predisposition to get misty in the morning. Adjacent to Pommard, the wine has some of the structure of that village allied to the rounder character of Volnay. Together, these elements make for a wine that is likely to age well. Drink this ripe and smoky wine from 2023.
Packed with tannins, this dark-hued wine is concentrated, demanding aging. It has spice and layers of wood as well as black plums and acidity. It is a powerful wine, full of dark chocolate as well as fruit and tannins. Drink from 2023.
From the Villamont domaine, this is a soft, rounded, quite generous wine that is dominated by enjoyable bright red fruits. It's fresh, ripe, just lightly touched by tannins, and with a juicy, friendly aftertaste.
There is some good depth of flavor to this wine, the strawberry flavors going right through until they meet the tannic core. The acidity balances well, pushing the fruit through the dryness, leaving freshness and juicy fruits.
From one of the good value communes at the northern end of the Côte de Beaune, this Chorey is soft, juicy with strawberry flavors and framed by tannins. The acidity is there, but the effect is of a ripe, easy wine, ready to drink now.
Densely tannic and firm, this wine has fresh acidity and red-plum-skin flavors. It is a solid, chunky wine, likely to age well, with a vibrant, juicy freshness in the aftertaste.
Powerful, ripe wine, plump and structured. There are fresh black cherries and plums and structure that promises some aging.
Floral and aromatic, this wine is the opposite of the typical tannic Nuits-St.-Georges. It is lively, with vibrant red fruits, great rich black cherry flavors, with a light layer of tannin providing structure.
Light, bright and fruity, this has soft tannins, plenty of red fruits and balancing acidity. Just dry to finish, it is ready to drink now.
Using grapes sourced from 102-year-old vines, this is superripe and concentrated. Yet despite its richness, it has tight acidity that meshes with plum and damson fruits. Age for at least five years.
Opulent and ripe, this is full of sweet red fruit, with tannins that have absorbed into the fruit. The wood aging acts as support to the rich texture. It is developing well, but could certainly age for four years or more.
An impressively rich Sancerre red, showing plenty of red berry fruits, tight tannins and balanced acidity. Yes, it is not Burgundy, but in 2005 Sancerre could really justify its red wines, and this example, with delicacy and elegance, works well.
This is ripe and fruity with attractive red-fruit flavors and a touch of tannins to keep it all in place. The wine is soft with just a layer of tannin and plenty of red cherries at the end.
While this wine is firm, with some fine tannins, it also has a pure line in fresh strawberry fruits that will develop as the tannins soften. This perfumed wine will develop slowly. Drink from 2020.
From the southern part of Nuits-Saint-Georges, this small premier cru has produced a dark and structured wine with plenty of dry tannins that need to age. It is concentrated and firm, the tannins backed up by generous black-plum fruits. Drink this wine from 2022.
While this wine has generous swathes of ripe fruit, it also has plenty of the dark tannins that are found in the northern part of the appellation. It is dense in character, packed equally with concentrated tannins and with red-berry fruits. The wine will age well; drink from 2022.
From the southern part of Nuits-St-Georges, this ripe while structured wine has considerable potential. With its acidity, intense red-berry flavors and a firm background of tannins, it is poised for long aging. The toasty character needs to integrate with the fruit. Drink this impressive wine from 2020.
This is a young, perfumed wine with attractive red fruits. While the wood is showing at the moment, that will fade as the wine develops, giving a fresh, raspberry-dominated wine. Drink from 2018.
There is just a hint of the structure normally associated with the appellation. Otherwise, the wine is broad and soft with rounded berry and cherry flavors. It comes from vines on the flatter vineyards in the valley. It's a wine that will mature quickly. Drink from 2018.
Domaine de Chatenoy, in the same family for 15 generations, has produced this rich, full-flavored wine, packed with sweet strawberry and smooth tannins. It could age, but is ready to drink now.
A perfumed wine that smells and tastes mature. While it still has some sweet strawberry fruit, secondary flavors of coffee, toast and mature acidity dominate. It is not likely to improve much with further keeping, but is a delectable Pinot Noir now.
This has weight and ripe plum and damson flavors that are now integrating into the tannins. It's worth aging for a few years, but it is already enjoyable.
Although this has a rustic edge, this is an attractive, ripe and red-fruited wine. It has a rich, jammy quality that combines with the dry tannins. The finish is dense and firm. Enjoy this now, or wait for three years.
This full-bodied wine demonstrates the jammy side of Volnay. It is rich and dense, and it has a delicious berry flavor. In the process of all this generosity, the tannins are lost, so drink it over the next few years.
Rich and broad, this is packed with dense fruit and tannins. It is ripe and full bodied, two qualities that are derived from the warm vineyard. The finish shows juicy acidity.
Attractive, wood and yellow fruit laden wine. It's soft, rounded with bright acidity and a spicy character. It's wood probably needs to soften over the next few months.
Structured and fruity, this is a wine that shows the delicate perfumed character of the Hautes Côtes. The wine has bright raspberry fruits, balanced acidity and just the right amount of structure for aging for a year.
A light-colored wine, this reflects the cool character of the Hautes Côtes. The result is a wine that's stalky, fruity and layered with acidity. It has a lightly strawberry, juicy aftertaste. Drink from 2015.
Soft and full of red fruits, this is a simple, forward and immediately drinkable wine, with gentle tannins and light acidity. There are no complications here, just fruitiness.
There is a lot of power in this wine. It has great weight and richness and an intense structure. Hanging from the frame of the wine are dark plum fruits, layers of wood, sweet spice, complex acidity and dry tannins. Age for 6–7 years.
Very structured, as befits a Vosne-Romanée, even a village wine. The black cherry fruit and layered acidity are combined with a firm and dry tannic core. There is power here, and some aging potential.
A selection of old vines and 12 months of barrel aging have produced a ripe, full and spicy wine. Red-plum and black-cherry fruits are concentrated and dense with flavors of dark chocolate from the wood aging. Drink this powerful wine from 2019.
From the Aube region in the south of Champagne, this is a rich and soft wine, on the sweet side for a Brut. It has a warm feeling to it, ripe and with apricot and apple fruit flavors. Rounded and full in the mouth, it is ready to drink.
Taut, tannic and nervy, this has red currant fruit that gives a crisp sensation to this tight, precise wine. Give it a year to soften.
This really elegant Pinot Noir has good color as well as a perfumed, aromatic character. The fruit is ripe cherries, supported by a light tannic layer. Acidity gives this wine freshness as well as suggesting that it could age. Drink from 2017.
Dense, rich and ripe, this has some tannic structure, but it's less salient compared to the ripe fruit, soft texture and juicy acidity. This wine can age, although it is already showing fruitiness.
Ripe and fruity, but also structured, this has fine acidity with a hint of wood. The main thrust of the wine is its raspberry, plum and damson fruits. The finish has a lively feel.
This wine has structure and strong old-wood flavors. It comes from the most southerly Premier Cru in the Côte de Beaune, close to the Chalonnaise vineyards. The fruit is still working its way through the tannins of this firm wine. It will have a juicy red-berry character as it develops, giving the potential for aging. Drink from 2018.
A fruity wine—this is full of strawberry flavor, with enough acidity and soft, warm tannins to give it shape. While it can age, it is ready to drink now.
Wood-influenced aromas set the scene, with the wine's toast character partnered with ripe red fruits and taut acidity. It needs at least three years to balance out.
A rare rosé Champagne whose color comes from Pinot Noir skins rather than from added red wine, this has vivid colors of orange and onion skin. It is rich, tasting as much like wine as like sparkling wine, with a full and ripe, yet dry, feel.
This dry, 100% Pinot Noir Champagne has tense acidity as well as crisp apple- and citrus-driven acidity. With its taut mineral character, it needs at least a year to soften.
Firm in its tannins and with a sense of power, this full-bodied wine has great fruit, along with wood and licorice flavors. This complex and fruity, wine is generous and ready to age. Drink from 2017.
Rich, soft and gentle, with light tannins, ripe fruit and a pronounced freshness, touched with black cherry. This is not for long-term aging, but it's worth waiting for 2–3 years.
A wine that is ripe and relatively soft. It does offer some dense tannins, but these are surrounded by rich black plum and ripe berry fruits. The structure comes from wood aging and fruit as much as from tannins. The final flavors are delicious, smoky and toasty.
Very soft, very ripe and generous, the tannins showing but surrounded by fruit flavors that are now morphing into more herbal, tarry, mushroom flavors. The final spice character gives a great complementary burst of taste.
Spicy, rich and concentrated, the important element of acidity working with the ripeness of the juicy black fruits. The wine has density, pushing tannins through to the ripe fruits. It shows a dry element that will take time to integrate.
A dense and serious wine, layering acidity with tight tannins. Under this surface firmness, the red-berry fruit is sumptuous with great juicy freshness. It is a great bringing together of structure, roundness and lively acidity.
An elegant style, showing a fresh character, packed with red berries, softly textured. It is a beautiful wine. Though not for long-term aging, it has great style, finishing with perfectly formed acidity and spice.
Darkly textured wine, the black berry fruits show firmness as well as acidity and a dry core. This will age well, its tannins pushing the weight forward. It is an impressive wine, with the acidity of 2008, while also having powerful structure.
Made mainly from Pinot Noir, this is a full wine, intensely fruity and ripe. Apple and sweet lime flavors give a rich feeling, while a touch of minerality adds the proper texture and balance. Drink now.
Rich and fruity, this wine full of black-cherry and red-plum flavors. There is no wood aging, just fruit and crisp acidity that between them fill out the lightly tannic texture. Drink this wine from 2018.
This sophisticated and stylish Pinot Noir from the south of France was made a Burgundy producer. It has fine tannins, juicy red cherry-driven acidity and a warm, ripe aftertaste.
Proper Nuits-St.-Georges, all dry tannins powering through the dark cherry fruit flavors, and balanced with tasty acidity. There's great potential here, the ripe fruits just showing their intensity, but for the moment, the tannins are the core.
An opulent style, where the tannins are subservient to the ripeness of the red cherry flavor. The acidity enhances the sweetness of the rich fruit, and the lively, vibrant texture comes sweeping right through to finish.
Firm and hard, this shows density rather than fruit, tannin rather than freshness. It goes for the dark side of Clos Vougeot. There is some bitterness from the extraction, but the wine needs many years before it comes into balance—the juicy red fruit finish promises richness later.
Very Pommard, very structured, this is a dense and dark wine that shows big black fruits over dry tannins. It's big, firm, muscular, a powerhouse of firmness and richness.
A beautiful, pure wine that  combines freshness and intense richness. It seems to float while still giving a huge mouthful of plums, coffee and sweet, juicy tannins. A straight line of pure flavor all the way to the finish.
A complete wine. As it starts in the mouth, there is a feeling of everything in its place. The tannins are initially soft, dusty rather than dry; then the dark plums, red berries and so-sweet strawberries come into play. And finally, they all come together in a climax of richness and freshness.
A beautiful wine, smooth, polished, with rounded corners. Its intense fruit is balanced and harmonizes well with the sweet tannins, the layers of wood and the red berry flavors. Certainly powerful, it impresses equally with the pleasure it will give in 7–10 years.
This is a powerhouse of a wine. It is driven forward by immense tannins as well as by superrich fruit that still keeps itself in check by a velvet texture. There is spice, acidity, some toast and vanilla, and finally a sunburst of warmth.
A supremely integrated wine, its richness and beautiful fruit just part of a story that starts with intense aromas and segues on the palate into a balance of tannins, dark red fruits, enveloping acidity and a beautifully orchestrated finale of berries, spice and aching freshness.
Beautiful, aromatic wine, with raspberry fruit floating above the spice and toast. This is shot through with acidity and some dense tannins, but above all it is the piercing fruit that dominates. One of Jadot's signature wines, it is wonderful, with considerable aging potential.
Domaine de l'Arlot owns just over one acre of this grand cru vineyard in Vosne-Romanée. This 2005 shows intense, complex fruits and tannins, both finely intertwined. There is power, but the strawberry flavors are just as important, flattering the palate.
Opulent yet so elegant, this wine has already achieved great balance. It comes from the soft richness of the generous fruit, the spice from both the wood and the fruit, and the roundness of the texture, which envelops you in its warmth and ripeness. And, at the end, just to give a great lift, along comes the acidity.
The fruit and structure of this monopole bottling from Nuiton-Beanoy are already well integrated. With a smoky character from wood aging and a core of firm tannins and acidity, it manages to feel ripe and crisp at the same time. Drink from 2020.
Showing plenty of the concentration this village can produce, this wine from a small parcel is structured to age. It's rich while keeping the acidity and crispness of the year in mind. Drink from 2021.
This ripe, cherry-flavored wine has touches of toasty spice from wood aging. It's smooth and soft, with juicy acidity that offsets its rounded texture.
The wine has a lean texture, presenting fruit that is shot through with tight acidity. Cherry flavors are firmly balanced with tannins and a dry core. Definitely cool-climate Pinot Noir.
This ripe and soft wine has a great balance between the rich red berry fruits, bright cherries and acidity. The structure is full, generous and gives the wine a comfortable feel. Acidity at the end lends a fresher aspect. Drink from 2017.
A charming and rich wine, with tannins that nestle within the soft texture. It is approachable, packed with ripe red fruits in an attractive juicy texture. The finish has enticing acidity.
A ripe, pure wine of red fruit around a core of toast, dominated by vital acidity and an edge of dry tannins. The wine is linear, finely balanced, fruity and exuberant.
This is a ripe, soft and warmly fruity wine. It has red cherry and strawberry flavors that lend a feeling of richness and roundness in texture. The acidity provides structure to this wine, but it is developing fast and will be ready to drink in 2015.
A dark color with light orange flecks leads to a wine that is fruity while feeling heavy. It has ripe strawberry flavors and a caramel character that doesn't lie with the final acidity.
This negociant wine produced by Domaine Dujac has plenty of the generous fruit associated with the appellation. It also has solid tannins built for aging and strikes a fine balance between the crisp character of its red fruit and richer wood spice notes. Drink from 2019.
Rich and full in mouthfeel, this wine is maturing well, giving some suggestions of bottle age alongside ripe pear and apple flavors. The acidity is still fresh, resulting in a crisp, tight finish. Drink now.
Soft, perfumed wine that has fresh red berry fruits, ripe tannins and a juicy fragrance. This is fruity and ready for drinking in the next 2–3 years. Screwcap.
With a combination of jammy red plums, berry fruits and a farmyard edginess, this is ripe, warm-climate Pinot Noir. Its texture has some tannin, but it's mostly soft and rounded. For aging over 3–5 years.
Tough and defiantly tannic, a hard-edged wine that gives a powerful dry texture. The fruit is less obvious, but has a potential to offer red fruits and fresh acidity. This does need aging, over 4–5 years.
Fine ripe fruit here, with soft, sweet berries and surprisingly smooth tannins. The wine is rich, not heavyweight, but glorying in the opulence of Pinot Noir. The finish brings on the tannins again.
Solid, foursquare wine, full of structure and fruit, bringing light tannins into play with black plums and sweet acidity. But the wine also has a lightness of touch, offering approachability as well as concentration. Age for 3–4 years.
A rich wine that shows the power of Gevrey, even in a lesser vintage. The fruit fills the glass with aromas of red plums, sweet raspberries and cranberry juice. There is spice here along with juicy fresh acidity. It is worth aging 3–4 years, but is delicious now.
From the Roux family's own vines in Vougeot, this is an intense statement of dark tannins and firm fruit. The wine sits solidly in the glass, giving a dry core, surrounded by sweet plum juice flavors. In 5–6 years, it will have developed well.
On one of the many steep slopes above Nuits Saint-Georges, this vineyard produces wines with much of the classic structure of the appellation. This is rich, full of firm tannins and with a solid structure and future. Blackberry flavors are dark and intense and the wine needs time. Drink from 2019.
Vines grown on thin soil close to the stony subsoil produce this tight, taught and mineral wine. With acidity, structured tannins and concentration, the wine is still starting out. It is a dark wine with black fruits that need time to fully develop. Drink this intense wine from 2020.
This wine comes from village appellation vineyards. It is soft and without the powerful tannins often found in the area. It compensates with dark berry fruits and some ripe tannins that are finely integrated into the wine. Acidity at the end adds to the potential of this wine which will be best from 2019.
This Premier Cru vineyard is on a high point in the village. It has produced a rich fruity wine with great structure and dense tannins. Bold red fruits are dominant with the acidity in a supporting role. The wine is rich, full and needing to age. Drink this wine from 2018.
A soft, earthy wine, with light strawberry jelly Pinot Noir flavors and a gentle series of tannins. The edge on this wine comes from the fresh acidity that brings out the lightweight final texture.
Taking his practice of bottling with as little sulfur as possible to its logical conclusion, André Drappier has bottled this wine with no sulfur at all. It's a brave wine, and one where the risk is justified. It is full, very pure in the mouth, full of delicious lemon zest and grapefruit, but rounded out considerably, the fruit right up there. Drink now, is Drappier's advice—not hard to take.
This is a ripe, rich, sumptuous wine that has both great berry fruits and a more serious character. With acidity that plays right through the wine, it is crisp and bright, but full bodied, with considerable depth of flavor.
Owned by the Devillard family, Château de Chamirey produces firmly textured wines. This Mercurey is on the dry side, while not losing sight of fresh red-berry fruits and bright acidity.
Finely perfumed, a wine that has some elegant structure, sweet red-berry fruits and a light acidity. The texture is gentle, soft and rounded, ready to drink now.
This producer, based in Ladoix-Serrigny in the Côte de Beaune also has a small parcel in this Grand Cru in Vosne-Romanée. Like all this producer's wines it was fermented in open tanks before barrel aging. That gives an extra concentration to the ripe fruits and firm tannins. It is an opulent wine, juicy with black fruits and acidity. With its structure, it will certainly age further, so drink from 2019.
This blend from five Beaune Premier Crus was made to celebrate the Potel family's 50 years in wine. It is a richly structured, beautiful wine with its dark tannins and black fruit showing so well. Concentrated from the low yielding old vines, the wine is packed with fruits and acidity that are developing slowly. Drink from 2020.
This wine comes from perhaps the most well-known of the many Beaune Premier Crus, from a small parcel of vines that are over 100 years old. It is a rich wine, generous and with a ripe future. At present, the structure and tannins dominate, allowing the wine to have good aging potential. Drink from 2020.
The Bertins Premier Cru vineyard is on the southern Volnay side of Pommard, giving a comparatively soft generous style of wine. Even so, there is plenty of structure here with powerful dark toasty flavors balanced by rich blackberry fruit. This is a fine wine with great potential. Drink from 2022.
Vines planted in 1939 by the current winemaker's grandfather give an impressively ripe wine. It is dense with concentrated tannins, smoky red fruits and still youthful acidity. The wine has a bold juicy character that comes from the open-tank fermentation giving great fruitiness. Drink this wine from 2020.
The Devillards own 99% of this 8.5-acre Premier Cru and so feel they can describe it as a quasi-monopoly. Vines dating back to 1922 give immense concentration as well as rich black fruits. The wine is spicy with a strongly mineral texture, red-berry fruits and black cherries. It is a wine for aging, so drink from 2022.
Named after one of the Merovingian kings of the Franks (7th century), this wine is somewhat more modern in style than that. In fact with its ripe red and black-cherry fruits and balanced, smoky tannins, it's a wine to drink now. It will age though, until 2020.
This is a fruity, lightly structured wine. With perfumed red berries and tight acidity, it is all about fruitiness and freshness. It needs to fill out and to become as rich as its potential suggests. Drink from 2018.
Packed with ripe black- and red-fruit flavors, this wine is dense and concentrated. The rich, generous fruit comes with a complex minerally edge, and it shows the wood influence in the form of a spice note. Age this at least six years.
Typical of Volnay, this wine has a velvety character that surrounds the firm tannins. The acidity is palpable through the warm red-berry flavors and firm edge. It is certainly a wine for aging, although it is also likely to be drinkable in 2–3 years.
Powerful and finely structured, this rich wine has swathes of red plum and red berry flavors that balance the core of solid tannins. It shows the ripe fruit and structure of the vintage. Age this for 2–3 years.
Rich, round and complex, this is full of ripe red-berry flavors. The acidity drives the solid tannins and firm structure. The wine has the approachability of Beaune, but it can also be aged for 4–5 years.
Smooth and rich, this generous selection is full of ripe fruit and balanced tannins. It shows the elegant side of village wines. With delicious acidity on the finish, this wine can be consumed soon, although it will also age well for several years.
Partly aged in wood, this ripe, full wine has rich cherry fruits and some balanced tannins. It's a structured wine while also juicy and with good acidity. It needs to age another few months, so drink from the end of 2017.
A rich and fruity wine with an attractive layer of tannins to go with the bright red cherry and damson flavors. The fruit is delicious, succulent, finishing with fine acidity.
A perfumed wine, deliciously accessible now. The damson and red plum fruits push through a light tannic core. It's a wine with a pure Pinot character, very linear and ready to drink.
A wine relatively high in red-currant-like acidity. It does have a rustic side to it, although the fruit has potential richness and should come through in 2–3 years.
While there is little varietal character in this Pinot Noir, it is still an attractive, light and fruity wine. Red berries come through strongly sustaining acidity and some tight, mineral tannins. The wine is already well developed and ready to drink.
With many Champy reds, the high toast extract is just a hint. Here it dominates. While there is acidity and a bitter cherry flavor, it is hard to discern through the barrier of wood. Maybe two or three years will help, but it is a question.
With judicious wood aging, this is a rich wine. Red berry and red-currant fruits dominate the acidity, giving a wine that is ripe and juicy. The aftertaste brings in attractive red cherries and acidity. Drink from 2017.
The wine is soft, fruity and immediately accessible. Red-berry fruit and balanced acidity are paired with red cherry and soft tannins. The wine is juicy and will be ready to drink from late 2017.
The Hautes Côtes de Nuits is in the first range of hills behind the famed Côtes de Nuits. Its cooler climate produces lighter wines, although in this warm vintage this is ripe style of wine. With its red-berry fruits and juicy acidity, the light tannins just give structure to a wine that is ready to drink.
One of Faiveley's monopoles (wholly owned vineyards), Clos des Cortons makes powerful wines. That's the case in 2005. This wine towers up, a strong edifice of tannins and big, black fruits. It has all the right elements coming into place, along with weight and some elegance.
A big, burly wine, powerful, concentrated and packed with fruit, the tannins a potential aging advantage underneath all this delicious fruit. Solid, but charming at the same time.
A beautiful rounded wine, full of juicy fruit, but sustained by a strong tannic structure. This dryness suggests good aging potential, as does the ripeness of the fruit and the acidity. Keep for at least 6 years.
A round, full-bodied wine that goes for the generous, opulent fruity aspect of red Burgundy with its big, blowsy red fruits, just kept in check by tannins. The acidity is lively and fresh, keeping pace with the intense vibrant fruits. Screwcap.
An impressive wine, fueled by black plum juice flavors. The acidity is just right, balancing the richness of the fruit. The wine revels in the serious side of Echezeaux, packed with dark, tight tannins over the fruit. It needs at least five years, maybe 10.
Concentrated and powerful, this wine is rich and full in the mouth, with wonderful ripe fruits over the great tannins. It is solid, dark and dense, full of smoky flavors and a rich strawberry flavor. Drink from 2022.
This Beaune bottling has a dense structure that broods through its tannic outer skin. Perfumed red fruits will shortly burst out to give an opulent, rich wine with both great acidity and layers of spice that finish with freshness. Drink from 2021.
Severe and austere at this stage, this solid, dark wine has all the weight of a wine from Gevrey, concentrated and densely tannic. It's firm, packed with dark plum fruit and perfumed acidity. It's foursquare, demanding long aging. Drink from 2021
Produced from organically grown grapes, this structured wine is complex and still very closed up, with dense tannins and dark fruit. Powerful with dark plum flavors, it is firmly textured and needs plenty of time for aging. Drink from 2020
This wine has power and firm tannins. Intensely fresh, it offers acidity and red-currant flavors that burst out of the dark, dry core. It's complex, with a touch of spice from wood aging that gives an elegant, delicious aftertaste. Drink from 2019.
Toasty aromas are not enough to smother the intense, rich and concentrated fruitiness of this powerful wine. Structured and with a firm backbone, it is slow in developing. its brooding dark character still very obvious. However, the fruit is all there, waiting to release the burst of red-berry flavors. Drink from 2022.
Aux Echanges is one of the smallest Premier Crus in Chambolle on the northern end close to Morey Saint-Denis, an area that gives a firm character to the wine. The structure is all there with some solid tannins although the wine also has superripe red fruits that are delicious and jammy. Full in the mouth, it is still young, so drink from 2019.
The first things to notice are the tannins with a strongly dry core. This wine is dark, dense and concentrated, still allowing red fruits and acidity to give freshness. It is a big, juicy wine with a great future. Drink from 2020.
The wine has barnyard aromas that need to blow off. It has firm dry tannins and dense red fruits that, again, need to integrate. It has a good future, though, as a wine that will be solid, rich and dense. Drink from 2024.
Structured and dense with tannins, this is a big wine with a big future. Its black fruits, acidity and solid texture all point to its weight and richness. It is going to be a rich fruity wine. But wait until 2023.
The Suremain family winery in the main street of Mercurey has cellars going back to the 17th century. This wood-aged wine will have been kept here, where it has developed into a structured and firm wine, full of dry tannins as well as ripe red-berry fruits. Drink from 2023.
This is a structured, full-bodied wine that has solid tannins and concentrated fruitiness. It is packed with red-berry flavors, ripe tannins and spice from the wood aging. The wine will take time to develop. Drink from 2022.
Showing a dry character from the wood aging, this spicy wine also has fruit weight. While it is still young, its ripe berry flavors laced with black cherries are right up front. It does have the rounded character of a Beaune and this will develop more strongly. Drink from 2021.
Soft and aromatic, the wine is fruity with open tannins and plenty of acidity. It is smooth and developing quickly, showing its red-currant fruit. Drink from 2019.
The wine is structured and with bold red fruits. It also has a firm texture, layers of tannins and a solid texture. Acidity shines through at the end. These elements promise a serious wine that will age well. Drink from 2021.
Ripe, fruity while also rich, this is a soft wine that's developing quickly. It has some smokiness, gentle tannins and a juicy texture. Drink this already easy wine from 2015.
Attractive red fruits dominate this light and fruity wine. Good acidity and bright flavors are smoothed by wood, while the aftertaste brings back the fruit. Drink now.
Jean Laurent is based in the southern Aube region with its ripe Pinot Noir, as in this blanc de noirs. It is full of lavish apple and spice flavors along with an orange-zest tang. Acidity comes cleanly through the richness to produce an impressive, balanced and full-bodied wine.
The wine has a stalky character, with bitter cherry fruits and light, lean acidity. Very textured, its tannins give a dry feeling to the finish. Drink from 2014.
The line of premier cru vineyards runs to the west of the town of Givry, with Servoisine touching the town's last houses. The wine is ripe and juicy, hiding its tannins in the heart of generous rich red fruits. It is likely to be a wine that will develop quickly and should be ready from 2019.
This The wine from a monopole vineyard shows the intense acidity of the vintage yet also bursts with red berry fruit, underlined with firm tannins. Drink now, or better yet, from 2018.
At the northern end of the Ladoix appellation, this small Premier Cru has produced a red-fruited wine shot through with acidity and spicy flavors. It is juicy, showing red cherries, raspberries bolstered with a layer of tannins. The wine is ready to drink, although it will age at least until 2023.
Four parcels in the Clos du Roi Premier Cru go into this wine. It is structured and firm—a wine for aging. It has a strongly mineral character, concentrated tannins as well as black-cherry fruit and freshening acidity. Drink the wine from 2018.
Red fruit and wood are both prominent in this wine. A juicy red-currant character shows through the high-toast flavor. Attractive and fruity, it is likely to develop quickly. Drink this soft wine from 2018.
Made exclusively from Pinot Noir, this is a rich and highly textured wine. Red fruit aromas yield a ripe impression on the palate, while at the same time, it is dry and crisp in tangy acidity, with a zesty lemon flourish. This food-friendly wine is ready to drink.
Only recently disgorged in July 2017, this bottling is still young. It is structured with a hint of tannin as well as a steely tight texture. It is going to develop into a fine wine, rich and with a blend of apple and ripe pear flavors. Drink this bottling from late 2018.
From outlying vineyards in the Côte d'Or, the heartland of Burgundy, this wood-aged wine is full of red currants and attractive, easy acidity. With a touch of spice and a juicy aftertaste, it is ready to drink.
This blend of premier crus and some village Côte de Beaune shows generous red-cherry fruit and a touch of acidity. Its depth of richness and complexity highlight its fine origins.
A beautifully perfumed wine from one of Volnay's top vineyards, this delights with its aromatic red fruits, ripe tannins and balancing acids. It is still settling down and will certainly round out over the next years when its more sumptuous side will come forward.
The crispness and acidity are very evident in this bright, fresh, strawberry-flavored wine. Drink soon for its delicious liveliness.
This is firm, showing a ripe plum-skin flavor and a severe line of tannin. There's some bitterness along with a good depth of fruit flavor, structure and acidity, all of which suggest aging potential.
A rounded, wood-aged wine, this is full of ripe red-berry and spice flavors, with a core of warm, smoky tannins. It is structured and should age over several years.
A darkly tannic wine, showing a dry side of Pinot Noir but still offering some good berry fruits and raspberry sweetness. The acidity needs to soften, though.
With big holdings in the appellation, the Château de Santenay produces a range of wines. This single-vineyard bottling is typically rich and rounded. It cushions the tannins with ripe fruit and gentle acidity. Developing well, the wine will be ready to drink from 2017.
Light colored wine with a touch of smokiness and soft, ripe fruits. It lacks definition, giving an open feeling without much structure. Wood aging gives a burnt character at the end.
Bright, ripe strawberry and cherry flavors are contrasted with the firm tannins of wood aging. This is a very young wine, with layers of acidity, spice and toast. Drink from 2016.
Cherry and wild strawberry flavors dominate this fruity wine. It is very fresh with intense acidity and a crisp aftertaste. A few months more in bottle would help it soften.
The wine is velvet soft with smooth red berries and gentle tannins. It has a line in acidity along with spice and a rounded texture. Drink this lightly wood-aged wine now.
A wine that offers elegance, the wood flavors going with strawberry and dark berry flavors. There is an earthy, undergrowth character here as well, bringing out a bitter edge to counteract the sweet, jammy finish.
The wine seems soapy and out of focus. It's soft while missing fruit. The acidity and freshness at the end are the best parts.
From a selection of old vines in four parcels, the wine has rich fruits, concentrated blackberry flavors and fully integrated tannins. It is ripe, juicy with fine acidity and a good potential. Drink this fine and fruity wine from 2018.
This lean, firmly tannic wine is more about structure than fruit. There is a burnt, chocolate- and bitter-coffee flavor that gives edge to the palate, while firm tannins enrobe black-cherry fruit. Drink from 2016.
From Verzenay on the Montagne de Reims this wine is rich, structured and concentrated. It has a rich texture plus spice as well as zesty orange and red-currant fruits. The wine retains some of the tannins of the red grapes although goes much more for a mineral texture. Drink now.
The light color of this wine continues to the light palate, which just hints at strawberry fruits. Soft, finishing with fresh acidity, this lightweight wine should be drunk now.
A 900-foot vineyard offers just the right cool conditions for great Pinot Noir. This is impressive, toast and raspberry fruit flavors vying with spice and acidity. It needs 3–4 years for the wood to integrate completely.
This is such a perfumed wine with deceptively soft tannins and great fruit. The acidity is classic for the vintage, with raspberries and intense freshness at the end. It has a fine line of tannins and a life that will go far. Drink from 2022.
This wine is dense, although you hardly notice the tannins for the weight of concentrated fruit. The tannins are there, though, a power to thrust this immense wine well into the future. It is well formed, firm while rich. Drink from 2024.
This massive wine is powered by dark, concentrated and smoky tannins that are masking the fruit. Dry and dense, it will take many years for the black fruits behind the facade to develop. Drink this intense wine from 2025.
This walled vineyard has produced a surprisingly tannic, if impressive, wine for a Savigny in this vintage. It has a dark and firm character, the red berry fruits just beginning to break through the firm and dry tannins. It needs 4–5 years' aging.
This is a serious sparkling wine, with richness as well as properly tense structure. It has weight, some bottle age with yeast and toast as important as citric fruit flavors. The initials stand for the names of the two winemakers.
A dry core pervades this full-bodied wine. Red fruits are masking its delicious ripe meat and sweet jam flavors. There is a distinct tannic element that holds this attractive wine together.
A firmly tannic wine, the ripe fruit surrounded by a dry shell. It is already showing the firm chunky character of Nuits-St-Georges, with its dark plum and bitter cherry fruits well into the complex mix of flavors. Age for at least three years.
Still firm and closed, this is a structured wine, solidly tannic with just hints of fruit. It has a dry feel to it, firm, the acidity and red fruits coming through the leathery, dark texture. The wine needs aging, so drink from 2017.
A soft and rounded wine, full of ripe fruits that command all the attention. Red fruits dominate, just supported by tannins and a firm dryness. This is a rich wine that will age quickly, worth drinking in the next two years.
A chunky, solid wine, its tannins as important as its fruitiness. It shows black fruits, ripe bitter cherry flavors, along with dense tannins. Offering a powerful blast of Pinot Noir, and worth aging for three years.
Full, ripe wine, layered with fruits and a dry, more mineral core. The wine has good depth of flavor, strawberries, red currants and a citrus cut that keeps the wine fresh at the end.
This is a lightly smoky wine from vineyards in the hills behind the Côte de Beaune. It is spicy with a touch of wood as well as red-cherry fruitiness. The wine needs to age a few months, so drink from late 2018.
The wine is juicy with intense acidity. Its red-currant flavor is consistent with this acidity. Tannins are firm and will soften. The juicy aftertaste gives the wine crispness.
With the concentration that comes from old vines, this is a rich wine intense with black-fruit flavors. It offers layers of wood and spice, with tannins and a dense texture that mean it is only just ready to drink. Rich and dark, it will be better from 2017.
With the velvet texture typical of the appellation, this smooth wine offers a good balance between the red fruits and soft tannins. A smoky edge mingles with the berry-fruit acidity to give a wine ready to drink from 2018.
This wine is ripe, full of red plums and soft tannins. It has a rich feel, soft and fruity. The tannins are velvety with juicy acidity and a generous feel. The wine will be ready to drink from 2018.
Inevitably, coming from a Grand Cru vineyard, this wine is still very young. It has the beginnings of ripe black plum fruits that will develop well. For the moment, the tannins and structure show most strongly. Give this concentrated wine until 2019.
Impressively rich and dense, with dark plum and sweet fruits signalling opulence. The wine has power and intensity although it never loses the acidity of the vintage.
Black cherry juice vies with a dense structure in this powerful wine. It has layers of tannins and sweetness. This is a firm, solid wine packed inside velvet. Age for 10 years and more.
Showing austerity via its tannins, this is a severe wine despite its red berry fruit. It has layers of wood and a dry core. Age for six years or more.
This firm wine is solid with tannins while also having the fruitiness of the year. A dry element will allow the wine to age balanced, with bright juicy fruits shining through. It comes from one of the lesser-known premier cru vineyards in Beaune. Drink from 2018.
This is a very perfumed wine, full of red fruits and hedgerow berry flavors cut with some firm tannins. It has an aromatic character that is typical of Chambolle-Musigny, a soft, warm texture that is developing behind the tannins. It needs to age, so drink from 2018.
There is some solid structure here, along with a tannic edge that marks out a wine for aging. This has plum skin and a dense texture that brings out a richness as well as the acidity that marks the vintage. It should be aged; drink from 2017.
This wine is rich with the sort of firm tannins that will give great supporting structure to the ripe berry fruits. With a juicy character, the wine is fresh and balanced with the solid tannins. It likely will be ready to drink from 2018.
Produced at a Domaine that is run by the Arnoux family, the wine has both a rich side and a firm side. The rich side is expressed in the bold red fruits, while the firm side comes through in the tannins and structure that will allow the wine to age. Drink this dense wine from 2020.
The wine is structured, dense with tannins and smokiness from the wood aging. Its fruits, though in the background at this stage, offer fine black-cherry potential. Drink this concentrated wine from 2022.
A smoky spicy wine that is full of berry fruits and with some toasty wood-aging flavors. With its tannic structure it will need to age, although already the bright berry fruits are generous and ripe. Drink from 2022.
Still firm and with dry tannins, this is a structured wine, with red fruits and acidity behind the concentrated texture. It suggests the succulent ripe fruitiness that will develop as the wine ages. Drink this generous wine from 2021.
This is a smoky and ripe wine from Beaune's top premier cru. Structured, dusty tannins support the red fruits and acidity. The combination is already rich, but holds good potential as well. It will be best from 2020.
This wine is rich, firmly structured while also full of dense black fruits. It comes from one of the top premier-cru vineyards in the appellation, well situated halfway up the slope, facing east. The wine will develop slowly as the ripe fruit comes through the structure. Drink from 2021.
Every producer seems to own, or have access to, a small part of Clos de Vougeot even if quantities produced are tiny. This wine is still firm, packed with tannins although providing hints of the delicious red fruits to come. It is a structured while also generous wine, just needing time. Drink from 2022.
This four-acre, east-facing slope has produced a rich, ripely maturing wine, with rounded red fruits layered with acidity. It's a generous wine, full in the mouth. The aftertaste continues the juicy, fruity theme, firmly sustained by the tannins.
This rich wine has spice and red fruits backed by a dry texture. The smoky wood is still right up front, giving the wine a firm character. Wait for the fruit to develop further and drink from 2020.
Bought in 2006 by François Pinault, also owner of Bordeaux Château Latour, Domaine d'Eugenie (the former Domaine René Engel) is just starting out. Already the style, as in this wine, exhibits power, concentration and structure. But here, also, there is great, vibrant fruit, the red berry flavors rolling around the mouth.
A firm and tannic wine initially, but then it opens out with such sweet, generous fruits and flavors of strawberries and pepper. The texture is dense, a vertical pile of ripe tannins and richness.
A big bruiser of a wine. It is easy to love the firm, complex structure allied with beautifully ripe, sweet fruit flavors. The wine is rich and powerful, but there are so many things going on here, from the intense tannins to the smoky black finish.
An intensely perfumed wine, tight with tannins and red stone fruits. There is some hardness initially, then the wine opens out to give juicy, ripe red plums, dry tannins, spice and sweet acidity. The finish is full and dry. Age for several years.
The largest of the premier crus of Vosne-Romanée can make complete wines, as in this example. It has ripe fruit, touched with juiciness, but it is the enveloping firm and full structure that gives the wine its special character. It has a range of sweet fruit flavors, allied to dark tannins, suggesting aging potential.
Classic Pommard, a big, firm, tannic wine that is foursquare and dominating. It broods with its dense structure and concentration. The fruits are solid, with plum skins, red berries and bursts of acidity. All this adds up to a wine that needs to age. Aim for five years before drinking.
This wine is rich, sweet, extravagant and, finally, elegant. Its ripe fruit flavors, red plums, sweet strawberries and smoky acidity all work together. The wine shows considerable concentration, but never loses sight of freshness. Age for another five years at least.
Initially round, this develops a strong minerality, with a texture that is firm and dominating ripe fruit. There is definite austerity here. The wine is at present firm and tough, and needs several years to open up.
A structured, relatively cool Volnay, dominated more by ripe tannins than by fruit. The fruit that is there is fresh, layered with acidity, juicy in texture, with cranberry and black plum skin flavors. The finish suggests red berries with its firmness. The wine demands at least five years' aging.
A beautifully perfumed wine, all herbs and smokiness. The palate sings the same tune, a rich, sensuous one, laced with more somber notes of dark, dry tannins. At the end of the day, this is already a delicious wine, but one that will really improve over 5–10 years.
Corton is the largest grand cru in Burgundy (all of 240 acres) and its style can vary widely. Bouchard has gone for a relatively soft style, emphasizing fruits, raspberry, myrtle and black currants, topped with acidity. It is a light, delicious wine, but probably not for aging.
A dense, almost heavy wine, with smoky, licorice flavors that dominate the fruit. It is firm, big, solid, the sort of wine that demands attention with its concentration and powered structure. It may need time for aging, but already the power and weight are there.
Spicy, smoky Lapsang Souchong tea aromas, pure acidity and juicy red plum flavors are all here in this big, but finely structured wine. The tannins are an essential part of the shape of the wine, but act as a support for its richness. The finish brings out the lively acidity of Pinot Noir. Age for five years.
The richness of the fruit from Caillerets is so evident in this scrumptious wine. With its big, bold black fruits, it has sweetness, a soft, generous texture and evocative perfumes. It is so delicious and ready to drink now, that even the acidity that shows through has a hard time reminding us that this wine should age as well.
Fresh and packed with red fruits, this wine comes from the Faiveley domaine. With raspberry flavors and plenty of acidity, the wine is forward and going to develop quickly. Drink from 2018.
Even in a fruity year, Pommard lives up to its reputation for firm tannins. This wine will have delicious ripe black fruits, although not just yet. The structure and the dark tannins are up front, leaving tantalizing hints of the richness to come. Drink from 2019.
From vines in the north of the Nuits Saint-Georges, close to Vosne-Romanée, this is a structured wine. It has ripe berry fruits and acidity that are still developing through the firm, dry tannins. The wine is still young and needs to age, so drink from 2019.
This wine is smoky yet fresh and juicy. It has a light touch of red-currant fruits, a crisp texture and bright acidity. The tannins are gentle, leaving pride of place to the natural fruitiness of the wine. Drink from 2017.
Although this wine is tight with tannins and wood aging, it shows the softer side of the appellation with its ripe red berry fruit. Needing more time in bottle to deliver the opulence of its fine Premier Cru vineyard, it will be best from 2022.
This is an attractively structured wine, with ripe strawberry and smoky wood flavors. The fruit continues through to the soft finish, which is laced with acidity and a firm tannic core.
The grapes were harvested in the early morning to preserve the real freshness that is here. The attractive, rich wine is full in the mouth with its red-berry and red-currant fruits that are cut with citrus. The wine is ready to drink.
Ripe and smooth, this is a light take on this Grand Cru. Red berry fruits are still smothered by the wood aging which brings in a strongly toasty element. The wine though has potential as it comes into balance, elegant and stylish. Drink from 2019.
With some richness, red fruits over wood and a full-bodied structure, this is a solid, dense wine. Acidity is present, while the ripe juicy fruits more than balance it. The tannins offer a firm structure and suggest aging.
This is a delicate wine, sweet strawberry and elegant structure combining over a soft texture. There is a hint of smokiness as an addition to the finely rounded aftertaste.
The wallled Clos des Ursulines is wholly owned by this producer. This perfumed wine is showing strong wood aromas as well as concentrated spice. Underneath, the generous juicy fruit has a fine balance between red plums and bright acidity. Drink from 2022.
From one of the parcels that make up the larger Corton Grand Cru, this is a powerful wine with a proper sense of its dignity. It is stylish as well as rich—an elegant blending of ripe red fruits, tannins and acidity. The wine of course has great potential and will not be ready to drink until 2025.
This is a powerful wine with concentration and dark tannins. It is rich, packed with black fruits and acidity. The wine has spice, a bold structure and a great future. The wine, from one of the vineyards within the Corton Grand Cru, is likely to be ready to drink from 2025.
This firmly structured wine is packed with solid tannins as well as ripe juicy red fruits. It comes from the upper part of the Rugiens Premier Cru, one of the top sites in Pommard. Dense and needing to age, the wine will be ready from 2023.
Among the most northerly of the run of Beaune premier crus, the wine is structured but the structure is cushioned by the ripe red-berry fruits to give a generous wine. Backed by tannins, the wine will age well. Drink from 2022.
A firmly structured wine, solid with tannins and with structure. The wine is also full of fruit potential, ripe with red berries. It is dense wine that needs to age. Drink from 2025.
Rich red fruits combine with good acidity, raspberry flavors and soft tannins. Ripe and juicy, it shows great fruitiness at the end.
Ripe and jammy, it's full of red fruit jelly flavors. It has just enough tannic structure to support the fruit, giving balance with a dry core and fragrant acidity. It's rich, full in the mouth and needs time. Drink from 2017.
This is a ripe and fruity wine, with soft tannins and rich raspberry fruits. Already accessible, it's very full in the mouth, wonderfully juicy and jammy, yet with some freshness at the end.
A fragrant wine, it offers truffle and red fruit aromas. The palate is ripe although it does have intense acidity, more bright red fruits than firmer structure. It feels almost ready to drink, fruity and fresh.
Soft, jammy, forward wine, that exhibits sweet strawberries, a generous structure, and only light tannins. Drink now.
A very rich and smooth Pinot Noir that is impressively concentrated. It has rich, structured fruit and fragrant acidity, red plums and a sense of tannin. This could certainly age, so drink after 2015.
With a good sense of structure, this bottling, formerly called Vieilles Vignes, comes from 55-year-old vines. It is textured, with some firm tannins as well as ripe plum flavors and acidity. The wine is still developing and will be better from 2016.
Rich and full, this wine shows some sense of structure. It has considerable acidity and flavors of cherry and red currant. With the dry tannins coming through on the finish, it will need some years to soften.
Rugiens,  which is named after its red soil, is located in the south of Pommard. Dense, structured and powerful, this is a brooding wine that has concentrated tannins and fruit that is offset by a tight line of acidity. This is a wine that demands aging.
This is ripe and fruity with attractive red-fruit flavors and a touch of tannins to keep it all in place. The wine is soft with just a layer of tannin and plenty of red cherries at the end.
Expect ripe and open fruit from this Faiveley owned vineyard in Mercurey. The wine tastes soft, the tannins well integrated into the ripe cherry and berry fruits. It could age, but it is ready to drink now.
Produced from young vines, this fresh, fruity wine offers immediate pleasure, with red berries and sweet fruit flavors over a spicy layer of wood and a soft, generous texture.
Like a freshly picked cherry, all juicy fruit with sweet perfumes and a jammy, ripe character. The wine is soft, open and already accessible.
Produced from two parcels in Aloxe Corton, this structured wine has red-plum fruitiness that is still masked by a dry tannic coating. It has concentration and good potential. Drink this textured, firm wine from 2018.
This is a pale-colored wine with a soft texture and gentle strawberry fruits. The texture comes through slowly to give a firmer edge to what is a wine for medium-term aging. This is stylish and smooth. It should be drunk from 2018.
This wine comes from one of the best vineyard sites in Savigny-lès-Beaune, on the slope closest to Beaune. It is a smooth, perfumed and ripe wine that has a balanced structure under the bright red-cherry flavor. Still bursting with young fruit, the wine will age, so wait to drink until 2019.
Damaged by hail in 2013, the vineyards yielded low quantities. The grapes harvested produced a wine with crisp red fruits and bright berry acidity. The fresh, tight aftertaste suggests the wine will age. Drink from 2019.
Certainly light, but also deliciously fruity, with raspberries a dominant flavor in the juicy acidity and the softest, velvet tannins. Drink now.
Warm, ripe and round, this red-fruited wine has a fine feeling of richness. It is soft and fruity, with just the right amount of acidity to balance. Ready to drink.
While the texture is rich and full-bodied, there is an edge of sharp acidity that takes away from the generous ripeness. Tannins and juicy red fruits are present, but the acidity is a little jarring.
Sweet new wood goes with rich plum skins in a wine that has a firm structure. The richness of the wine revolves around sweet cherries and juicy acidity. With the wood still dominant, it needs at least five years to settle down.
A solid wine, with plum skin and dry tannin textures. It does have the ripe fruit of 2009, attractive red fruits and juicy acidity. But it needs aging over at least three years to show its fruitiness.
This is a soft, gentle Pinot with a plum jelly flavor derived from a touch of sweetness in its fruit. Drink now.
A lightweight wine, almost tangy in its freshness. Wild strawberry flavors give a great liveliness to a wine that is taut in its acidity.
Ripe and round, this has a strawberry flavor that is surrounded by dense tannins. It shows a fine line of fresh acidity, and it is ready to drink, although it will age for several years.
This underrated village, which is located next to Savigny-lès-Beaune, has produced an attractive, fruity wine that has a fine structure, a red berry flavor and a twist of acidity on the finish. Keep this for 2–3 years.
Vacheron are masters of red Sancerre, and this wine lives up to the billing. There are impressively ripe fruits, flavors of the brightest berries and a sweet, pure character, emphasized by the acidity and underlined by wood.
This wine is dark and dense, very closed at this young stage. But wait for that rich fruit to burst out to give its intense acidity and ripeness to the wine. It's a powerhouse of flavors, spice and dark minerality. Drink from 2022.
This wine is dark, with a strong sense of structure. Dense black fruits are cut with strawberry acidity and a dark tension between fruit and firm tannins. The coiled power will allow this beautiful wine age for many years. Drink from 2020.
Aged in 100% new wood, this massive wine is full of dark plum and fragrant strawberries. It is also packed with dark tannins that give the wine a dry core. The fruitiness has a strongly juicy character, fragrant with acidity and freshness. The end is a reminder that this is a powerful wine. Drink from 2020.
More structure and less fruit is the characteristic of this wine. A dry core is very present, giving a tough edge at this stage. There are the hints of red fruits and powerful acidity that will develop. With its weight, this is a wine for the long term. Drink from 2019.
Ripe and full of raspberries, this has a structure well cushioned by the ripe texture. The wine is packed with acidity while having a sense of floral, aromatic fruitiness. From four different parcels in premier cru, this seductive wine will also age well. Drink from 2018.
From one of the top Premier Cru vineyards in Beaune, this structured wine shows concentration and richness. Packed with tannins in its center, it is cushioned by the generous red berry and cherry fruits. The wine has a finely perfumed aftertaste. Drink from 2018.
From vines close to the Sachets Premier Cru vineyard, this wine is powerful, structured and dense, despite the relatively low alcohol that gives it a lift of red fruits, acidity and perfume. It is still developing, a wine in progress, as its backbone of tannins softens. Drink from 2018.
At the northern end of the Ladoix appellation, this small Premier Cru has produced a red-fruited wine shot through with acidity and spicy flavors. It is juicy, showing red cherries, raspberries bolstered with a layer of tannins. The wine is ready to drink, although it will age at least until 2023.
Four parcels in the Clos du Roi Premier Cru go into this wine. It is structured and firm—a wine for aging. It has a strongly mineral character, concentrated tannins as well as black-cherry fruit and freshening acidity. Drink the wine from 2018.
For the wine and its fruit, there is too much firm extract here. It brings out very dry tannins and licorice flavors that cover the fruit. It's going to be a difficult wine to soften.
Bitter cherries and dark, tarry flavors mark this wood-aged Pinot Noir. There is a strong new wood character that gives some bitterness. The wine needs another year to soften.
Bitter cherry flavors mark a wine that is light in texture, with attractive acidity and a soft, fruity red berry finish. Not for aging.
This is a firm style of wine, showing the mineral character of Pernand-Verglesses reds. The wine has a nervy, almost herbal profile, showing red currants and considerable acidity.
Made 100% from Pinot Noir, this delicious rosé has fine red fruits, a great clean streak of acidity and a light touch of tannin to give structure. Very pure, very fresh.
From the home village of Pierre André's Château Corton-André, this is a solid, chunky wine, its tannins very prevalent at this stage. It promises to be a smoother, wood-aged sip with blackberry and spice as well as a tasty juiciness.
Pure Pinot Noir has produced a full, fruity sparkling wine. It is lightly crisp, fresh with wild strawberries and acidity. The aftertaste, soft and rounded, has a satisfying creamy character.
This is a fresh Pinot Noir with plenty of crisp red fruits and soft tannins. It's all about fruitiness, with a character that demands to be drunk now.
This perfumed wine offers plenty (perhaps too much) acidity and red fruits, with only light tannins. That makes for a fruity wine, fresh and ready to drink now and until 2018.
The light color of 2011 is evident in this bottling. It follows through to a soft, rounded, fruity wine that is lightly textured. Acidity and juicy red fruits offer a wine that is drinkable now.
Fruit and tannins harmonize in this ripe, soft wine. Attractive red berry fruits and lively acidity partner with a smooth texture. It's not a wine for aging, and will be ready to drink from 2015.
There are not many village wines made in Vougeot with the large areas devoted to Premier and Grand Cru. This wine has reminiscences of the structure of those top wines although it is delicious in its fragrant strawberries, full and with just the right amount of acidity. The fruit comes from the Clos du Château. Drink from 2018.
Very dense, this wine has some bitter extract and layers of wood that give it a very firm structure. While there is acidity, the wine also has a dark character that is hard and powerful. It is likely always to be a solid wine. Drink from 2020.
With some firm structure behind the red fruits, this wine will have a good future. A dry core sustained by the acidity is waiting to burst out and give a ripe, fruity while always fresh wine. Drink from 2018.
A dense, sumptuously structured wine that is full both of tannins and juicy fruit. Black plum, layers of acidity and the lightest hint of wood aging all play a part in this already drinkable wine. It will be better in five years, so wait until 2017.
This soft and smooth wine has just the right amount of smoky tannins to support the ripe, bitter cherry fruits and fresh acidity. It is still all fruit and certainly would benefit from aging, so drink from 2017.
Perfume partners with great acidity in this wine. The two work in harmony, resulting in a wine that has a soft texture, rich, jammy berry fruits and a backbone of tannins that will allow for aging. Drink from 2017.
This firm wine has structure as well as enticing sweet red berry fruits. Dynamic and fruity, it has a dark structure that impressively expresses this solid terroir. Drink from 2018.
From vines more than 50 years old, this is a full-throated, concentrated wine. Solid tannins and rich black fruits combine with structure and a sweet, ripe aftertaste. The acidity at the end gives just the right lift. Drink this powerful wine from 2017.
A wine with great sweet fruits along with smoky, firm tannins. It is certainly structured, and the black jelly fruits are already delicious. Weight partners with acidity, creating a combination of freshness and richness at the end. Drink from 2018.
Firm and structured, this dense and dark wine offers ripe black fruits and a concentrated texture. It also shows good acidity and the fruitiness of 2011, giving a wine that is both rich and fresh. Age and drink from 2017.
Faiveley owns two acres of this large Grand Cru vineyard. This 2011 is a big, bold and fruity wine that shows red fruits, a sweet texture and good acidity. It's powerful and dark, jammy as well as structured. The wood flavors are still showing strongly and need to soften. Drink from 2019.
This perfumed wine has light, ripe fruits and soft tannins. Red cherry and raspberry flavors dominate the palate of a wine that is still young. Drink this attractive wine from 2017.
The five acres of vines owned by Louis Jadot in this vineyard make this rich, bold, structured wine. Floral and intensely perfumed, with ripe red berry fruit, it's ripe while maintaining the intense acidity of the vintage. With all that power comes great longevity. Drink from 2026.
Seriously structured and full of robust tannins, this wine has enough rich fruit to match. As it opens, red plum and black cherry flavors shine. Dense, powerful and intense, it's a fine contender for long-term aging. Drink from 2025.
From one of the great grand crus of Gevrey-Chambertin, this is a firm, tannic wine with great life ahead of it. Powered and dense, it's packed with black fruit that's slowly developing. It will mature evenly over many years and will be best from 2026.
Generous and rounded, this wine combines the opulence of Volnay with a strongly tannic character coming from the old vines. Together, it's a rich, fruit-filled wine that is backed by a dry core and fragrant red berry acidity. Drink from 2018.
Dense and massive, this wine is still a baby. It gives it more tannin than fruit at this stage, very concentrated and with a dry, solid core. The fruit is there to feel, a rich mélange of black fruits and firm tannins. This powerful wine needs to age, so don't drink before 2019.
A delicious wine with all the roundness and style of a Chambolle. The texture is soft, but given a firm cushion of tannins and vanilla from the wood aging. Given 2–3 years, this will be a lovely wine.
A wine that shows a more delicate side of the vineyard, as the texture is rounded and juicy. The structure is fully in place, hinting at licorice and black chocolate while pushing the red berry fruits forward. The final tannins are soft and open.
The wine is defined by its power and dense concentration. It shows solid black fruits, plums, fig and licorice as well as dark tannins. It seems a little austere at this young stage and needs several years to flesh out.
Flowery and smoky aromas introduce a perfumed, ripe wine. Gentle at first, the tannins gradually show through, part of a solid texture that gives density. Fruit goes from damsons through black cherries and a layer of wild strawberry. For long-term aging.
There is plenty of the proper power and intensity of a Chambertin here, resulting in a structured wine. It is dense, packed with black plum flavors, with a hard edge of spice and tannin. Obviously, there is a long-term future here, and it should not be touched for 5–6 years.
Structured and concentrated, it has a silky richness that is very Volnay, while at the same time giving the bright fruits of the year. The final tastes are smoke and crisp acidity.
The tannins are linear and direct in this otherwise fruity wine. Along with dark tannins, it is also rich with warm red fruits. The acidity still shows strongly and suggests that the wine needs time. Drink from 2020.
Grown on rocky subsoil, this ripe and fruity wine has good acidity and plenty of black-cherry fruit. A darker core of tannins gives the wine a rich texture. With open fruits and plenty of acidity, the wine is developing well. Drink from 2019.
This wine is well balanced, with red-berry and plum-fruit flavors giving richness. A ripe, juicy character comes with the tight acidity. The smoky wood is just right. Drink from 2019.
This is well balanced, ripe and with a good link between the structure and the fragrant, perfumed red berries. The wine is full of fruit and acidity while having a core of dark tannins that will allow it to age. It will be best drunk after 2018.
This rich, creamy, juicy wine is full of strawberry fruits and ripe tannins. It has weight and density as well as powerful structure. A fresh black-cherry character comes through, giving acidity and a perfumed aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
Definitely on the dry side, showing the tannic face of Pinot Noir. This is a serious wine that reflects its status as a premier cru, a powerful mix of cranberry fruits and dark tannins, but marked by a hot, hard aftertaste.
Brambly wine, with hedgerow red fruits and bitter black cherries. It's very floral, crisp, the tannins suggesting some aging potential. To finish, the acidity is fresh and lively.
Caramel and soft berry fruits characterize this pleasant and fresh wine. It has flavors of red berries along with vanilla  to round it out. Easy Pinot, drink now.
With its intense red fruits and acidity, this initially seems so fruity. Slowly the powerful structure comes into play, yielding a concentrated, cellar-worthy wine.
While this is currently firm and closed, it promises fine things to come. Weight and richness combine with a solid core of tannins. The intense, refreshing acidity is a counterpoint to the ripe black-plum flavor. With all of this concentration, this should age for over 5–6 years.
The tannins are already finely integrated into the rich, ripe fruit. It has a smoky character along with a note of wood spice, and the black plum fruit serves as a juicy underlay. Given its weight and structure, this should for age five years at least.
This is a big, wood-laden smoky wine, with notes of spice and enticing toast to go with the firm tannins. At the same time, the fruit is vying to show its rich red-plum character. Give this 4–5 years to begin to show its best.
Complex and structured, this has rich tannins and a strawberry jam flavor from the ripe fruit. With its fine balance between the dry core and the fruity exterior, this should be cellared for at least four years.
This wine has great power along with magnificently rich fruit. Wood aging provides a judicious support to its fullness and opulence. Acidity, black cherries and red berry fruits come together with firm tannins. Combined they are already in balance, but the wine needs to wait. Drink from 2018.
This most powerful of Grand Cru vineyards has yielded another blockbuster. Even in the 2011 vintage, the wine is a massive statement, packed with rich fruits, dark tannins and layers of blackberry and juicy acidity. The wine has a dry texture, that will soften slowly over many years. Drink from 2019.
Spice and mint dominate this intensely aromatic wine. Solid and very structured, it is still showing its wood aging and extraction. But its bright future is certain, with the weight of black fruits, the firm tannins and the mineral texture. Guard this wine and don't drink before 2020.
Rich black fruits are supported by a dark structure and intensely juicy, youthful acidity. It is powerful, ripe and full of potential. Definitely young with its exuberant fruit, it is going to need serious aging. Drink this wine from 2020.
There are not many village wines made in Vougeot with the large areas devoted to Premier and Grand Cru. This wine has reminiscences of the structure of those top wines although it is delicious in its fragrant strawberries, full and with just the right amount of acidity. The fruit comes from the Clos du Château. Drink from 2018.
Very dense, this wine has some bitter extract and layers of wood that give it a very firm structure. While there is acidity, the wine also has a dark character that is hard and powerful. It is likely always to be a solid wine. Drink from 2020.
Smoky and aromatic, this wine shows great fruitiness against dark, structured tannins. Raspberries and black cherries are layered with wood, spice and final intense acidity. Drink this still-firm wine from 2018.
This is a concentrated, dark and brooding wine. Its complexity comes from the interplay of tannins and rich red fruits, laced with tight acidity. Serious and dense, it is a wine for long aging. Drink this impressive wine from 2019.
Because of such small harvests in 2013 because of hail, Alex Gambal decided to make one wine from all his premier cru parcels in Savigny-lès-Beaune. This wine is rich and ripe, full of sweet crushed strawberry flavors as well as a dry core of structure. Age this fine wine and drink from 2017.
A solid and structured wine from this premier cru vineyard which is a Rodet monopoly. Dense and full in the mouth, the wine has delicious juicy fruits as well as powerful tannins and layers of acidity over the red fruit. Keep for 6–8 years.
Made by Pierre Clément at Domaine de Châtenoy for the Xavier Flouret range, this is smooth, rich and soft. Generous and ripe with red berry fruits and gentle tannins, it could age until late 2015 before drinking.
Sourced from grapes grown in the Côte Chalonnaise, this is a soft, red-fruit-flavored wine, with a ripe, jammy character that makes it almost sweet. It is ready to drink.
Strong wood flavors dominate this wine. While there are hints of the juicy red fruits, the burnt toast is too strong. While that will soften, it seems likely that woodiness will be with the wine a long time.
Philip the Bold was Duke of Burgundy in the 14th century and owner of this estate. This wine that comes from vines next to Saint-Aubin is cool and fresh, emphasizing red currants and acidity. It needs to broaden out, which will happen in the next two to three years. Drink from 2019.
From one of the high-quality Premier Crus that have much of the reflected glory of the Vosne-Romanée grand crus, the beautiful wine is ripe and packed with great red fruits. Its wood aging is a rich support to this opulent wine with considerable potential. Drink from 2025.
Ripe, warm and with delicious strawberry and red-plum fruits, the wine is generous and full of fruit. The tannins are also there, a structure just to support all this fruit. It will be an opulent and beautiful wine as it ages. Drink from 2025.
Big, rich while also smooth, this is going to be a impressive wine. It has power and firm tannins as well as plenty of ripe black fruits and acidity. This wine, from one of the range of grand crus in Vosne-Romanée, will age well. Drink from 2026.
This is Burgundian opulence, with generous, rounded black-fruit and -berry flavors. Supporting this richness are the tannins that will allow the wine to age. From Louis Latour Domaine vineyards, it has a solid, dense structure that needs plenty of time. Drink from 2027.
This wine from the Corton Grand Cru vineyard is packed with tannins as well as smoky fruit. It is richly structured and firm, yet the fruit is equally powerful, showing bold black fruits struck against bright acidity. The wine will need considerable aging; drink from 2025.
This structured wine comes from one of the lesser-known Grand Crus of Vosne-Romanée. But it does have the structure and density of the wines from this run of grand crus, with bold tannins over the red-cherry fruits. It is likely to be a structured wine for many years. Drink from 2027.
Aged for a year in new wood barrels, this powerful, concentrated wine shows both richness and considerable aging potential. It is a powerhouse of ripe damson fruits and impressive tannins. Structured and intense, it needs to age for many years. Don't drink before 2026.
This is a rich wine with great potential. Its juicy spice and acidity are balanced with the red fruits, the generous texture and the fine structure. It is a wine that sums up the ripeness of the vintage. Drink from 2024.
This wine is firm yet ripe, with a bold yet tight character that foreshadows a rich wine in the future. The cherry and red plum flavors are lush and generous. It is going to be a delicious wine, full of concentration. Drink from 2023.
This is a generous wine, although one that will need some serious aging. It is rich in tannins and powered by a firm structure. The fruit offers the weight to counter the tannins. It just needs time. Drink from 2024.
This firm Pinot Noir has made subtle use of wood aging to round out and become rich. Red cherry fruits fill the mouth with soft tannins and toasty spice giving some complexity. The wine could age, although it is ready to drink now.
Fresh and fruity, this wine is all about red-currant fruitiness. It has only light tannins and plenty of juicy acidity. Drink from 2018.
A textured, tight wine, this offers some firm fruits. Berry flavors, plenty of acidity and a touch of minerality add to a wine that will need time to develop. Drink from 2018.
This attractively fruity wine has just a touch of tannin in the tangy, zesty structure. At the same time it offers crisp apple and grapefruit fruitiness. It's balanced, a great success with its combination of fruit and tense structure.
Bright while also jammy, this is a ripe wine dominated by rich red fruit. The core of tannins doesn't disturb the strawberry flavors and the crisp acidity. The wine is already developing well. Drink from 2019.
This fresh, juicy wine is full of red fruits and has light tannins. A dry core supports the perfumed red-berry flavors. With acidity, the wine is likely to develop quickly. Drink from 2019.
This family estate, established since the 14th century, has produced a light, beautifully fruity wine in the difficult 2013 vintage. With red fruits and soft tannins, it is fully of ripe berry flavors cut by acidity.A light structure in the background will allow the wine to age, although it is ready to drink now.
Bright red fruits dominate this approachable wine that offers smoky tannins along with spice and acidity. With a fresh, fruity aftertaste, the wine will develop quickly. Drink from 2018.
This wine is ripe with generous strawberry flavors and perfumed acidity. A smoky edge accompanies tastes of red cherry. The wine is rounded and light with attractive final acidity.
This is a rich, soft wine with jammy black fruits and ripe tannins. The acidity will hold the wine together and allow it to age. A mineral edge comes from the caillou (stones) in the soil—hence the wine's name. It will age, although quickly, so drink from 2018.
This wine is ripe and concentrated. It's packed with red fruit while also having solid tannins that give a firm structure. Acidity shoots through at the end to give a fresh lift, although the wine needs to age. Drink from 2017.
From Aegerter's own vineyards, this is an initially soft wine. It's only when the background tannins kick in that it becomes firmer, giving a dry, still-young core to this ripe wine. Red fruits dominate, balanced by acidity and a stylish, while firm, aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
This wine has some tannins that give structure as well as young fruitiness. A definite dry edge comes from the fruit as well as wood aging. The wood also brings out some bitterness that needs to soften. Drink from 2016.
Aged for 14 months in wood, this wine is perfumed and soft. Red fruits and attractive acidity give a wine that is ripe and almost ready to drink. It comes from the village just north of Gevrey-Chambertin in the Côte de Nuits. Drink from 2017.
This attractively perfumed wine holds ripe red fruits and a juicy texture. The structure is still developing, with firm tannins that need to soften. However the freshness of the wine promises a good future. Drink from 2018.
This single-vineyard village wine comes from a small parcel close to woods on the western edge of the Mercurey appellation. With soft red fruits and attractive acidity, the wine is fruity, easy and with a crisp aftertaste. It will be ready to drink from 2018.
A light and fruity wine with attractive red fruits and acidity. There is just a touch of tannin to hold the friendly fruitiness together.
Produced by the Château de Bligny close to Beaune, this soft, perfumed wine has stalky red fruits, laced with a dry core of tannin and fragrant acidity. It could age for another year.
Structured and fruity, this is a wine that shows the delicate perfumed character of the Hautes Côtes. The wine has bright raspberry fruits, balanced acidity and just the right amount of structure for aging for a year.
Attractive, wood and yellow fruit laden wine. It's soft, rounded with bright acidity and a spicy character. It's wood probably needs to soften over the next few months.
A perfumed wine, only just hinting at Pommard chunkiness and tannic structure. This is more polished and smooth, with a strong toasty wood element, while still delivering a fine, jammy, sweet aftertaste.
A ripe, sweet and enticing wine, with elegant structure and spice from new wood. It's the fruit that is so delicious here, the tannins subdued behind the strawberry flavors and fresh acidity.
The tannins here are fine, dusty almost, giving the wine a softer core than is normal for this vineyard. Around the tannins, the jammy blackberry fruits give a sweet side to the flavors. Rich and soft.
Packed with red fruits, this is a ripe while fresh wine. Acidity that cuts into the ripe flavors with a crisp edge in this otherwise jammy, rounded wine. The aftertaste is bright and lively with red currants. Drink from 2018.
Produced from old vines on the Bourgeois estate, this wood-aged wine certainly shows its toastiness although it also has plenty of red-berry flavors as a balance. It is richly concentrated, a good example of the richer, more serious style of Pinot Noir that is coming from Sancerre. It is structured and can age, so drink from 2017.
From one of the rare south-facing vineyards in Beaune, this warm, rich and ripe wine is generous with its spice, smokiness and rounded red fruits. Acidity cuts through, bringing raspberry in its wake. The sense of structure really gives this wine its power and density. Drink from 2020.
Ripe and juicy, this is a well-structured wine with both delicious red fruits and a core of serious tannins. The wine has weigh, richness and a opulence that comes from great fruits. The result is a wine with beautiful character that will develop well. Drink from 2019.
Wonderful spice and ripe red fruits shoot through this rich while structured wine. Dark cherries, strawberries and a ripe texture have given a wine that will be beautiful, smooth and generous. The acidity and the core of tannins will allow it to age well. Drink from 2019.
A generous wine, this features intense dark fruits, ripe strawberry and an almost -weet character. It's packed with spice, richness and beautiful concentration. Great acidity gives a wine that is developing freshness and weight. Drink from 2020.
This wine already has great balance, with its dry structure setting off the concentrated cherry and red-berry fruits. The acidity, tense while also fragrant, gives a background of freshness to the wine. It is still young, firm tannins still prominent. Drink from 2020.
With concentration and a sense of structure, this is a solid wine with great potential. It has firm tannins under the attractive raspberry fruits. The wine is dense and certainly needs aging. Drink from 2018.
Coming mainly from the villages of Ladoix and Chorey-lès-Beaune, this wine is a delicious example of the juicy, ripe fruit that comes from the Côte de Beaune. It's soft and open, with a generous character that makes it ready to drink soon, from 2018.
This is a tangy fruity wine. It has crisp acidity along with spice as well as red-currant fruitiness. It is light and refreshing and ready to drink now.
Ripe, soft and fruity, just hinting at the wood aging, this comes from a vineyard that was only lightly hit by hail in 2012. The acidity, spice and smokiness produce a wine that has a rich, red-fruit character that is shot through with fine acidity. Drink from 2017.
This wine is soft and round, with attractive acidity as well as a light sense of structure from tannins. It features considerable acidity along with wild strawberry flavors that keep it lifted and aromatic. Drink from 2017.
From vineyards across Burgundy, this soft wine is an attractive entry point to the region. It has red fruit and a soft character, with just some youthful tannins that melt as it opens. Drink now.
This structured wine is young, with a firm character that is still masking the juicy red fruits. However, it does have weight and the potential for a soft, rounded wine in a couple of years. Drink this wine, from a small region just north of Pouilly Fumé, from 2016.
So light in color, this Pinot Noir is almost a rosé. The texture and structure, though, are definitely of a red wine. Firm tannins give a backbone to the red cherry fruitiness and fresh acidity. It's still young so keep this wine until 2016.
Along with soft red fruits, this is a wine that shows crisp acidity, strawberry flavors and light tannins. It's already drinkable, but it can age for a year.
Attractive and fruity, this has red fruits at the fore. It is soft, round and balanced, with just the right amount of red currant acidity. Drink now.
Pure Pinot Noir, this has weight as well as intense acidity. It's a crisp wine, sourced from near Chablis, cool in texture while showing ripe red apples and quince fruitiness. Drink now.
This is a delicious, fruity wine with just a core of tannins to hold it together. It is packed with red berry fruits along with intense, still-youthful acidity. As it develops, it will become fruitier and softer.
With its light color, this is a soft and fruity wine that is now beginning to mature. Its red berries are acquiring a more barnyard character, while acidity is merging into the ripe texture. It's ready to drink.
A perfumed, light, fruity wine that comes from the hill vineyards behind the Côte de Nuits. It has red fruits, light tannins and a juicy, fresh aftertaste. Drink now.
This very earthy wine with a barnyard character has lost its fruit. It does have structure but it is not likely to lose its animal edge.
This ripe wine has spice as well as red-berry fruits. Good acidity combines with light tannins to deliver a balanced wine with a mineral edge that should age for a few more months. Drink from 2017.
This is a ripe, jammy wine with red plum and sweet strawberry fruits that are cut by both the acidity and the toasty tannins. Although ripe, the wine offers attractive juicy freshness. The aftertaste brings out more of the tannins.
Intensely perfumed, this wine has soft tannins and a smooth, red-fruit-dominated texture. From a 3.5-acre premier-cru vineyard, it is ripe while light in character, suggesting it will age smoothly and quickly. The wine is almost ready now, although it will be best from 2018.
Named after Alain Thiénot's daughter Garance, this is rich and full of delicious fruit. Well aged, it is just developing some secondary flavors that complement the ripe apple and crisp grapefruit flavors. The mineral tang on the finish adds a bit of levity. Drink now.
With a fine balance between some rigorous tannins and a more generous black-fruit character, this is a wine both to appreciate now and to age. The wine is perfumed, with spice from the wood aging and mint and thyme aromas. This serious wine is just ready to drink, but that would be a shame, so wait until 2018.
This is a deliciously ripe, full-bodied wine with all the red berry fruits, orange zest and acidity that you could want. It's finely made with a creamy mousse and a fresh and fruity aftertaste.
A soft and deliciously jammy wine. It has immediately attractive ripe plum and berry fruits, layered with balancing acidity. The tannins sit well in the plump cushion of the wine. Not for aging.
Smooth and soft, this has light, fresh red-berry fruits laced with acidity and perfumed by red cherries. The structure is gentle and with the bright fruits, this succulent wine is ready to drink.
This wine has an initial strong tannic element that submerges the red fruits. As it opens, the wine reveals more juiciness, berry flavors and fresh acidity. It's still young and needs to be aged. Drink from 2018.
Something of the structure of Morey is here in this wine. However it is surprisingly ready to drink, with the tannins in the background leaving the foreground to juicy red-berry fruits and fresh acidity. It is attractive and balanced; drink now.
This is a Pinot Noir-dominated wine, with intense acidity as well as attractive, rich white fruits. There is a touch of maturity, of ripeness that gives the wine a full-bodied character. Add in some toastiness and this is a well-integrated wine that's ready to drink.
Produced from Grand Cru vineyards on the Montagne de Reims, this wine is rich, dry and tightly structured. A mineral texture gives a steely edge that is balanced by perfumed fruit with apple and creamed pear flavors.
With the dominance of Pinot Noir in the Aube region, it is no surprise to find a vintage Champagne that is 100% from that grape. With a round character from the Pinot, as well as a hot vintage, this is a full-bodied wine with vibrant fruit and lively acidity. Drink now.
This wine from a densely planted southeast-facing vineyard is still firmly structured with a dry core of tannins. Its black cherry and plum fruit flavors are still developing yet show considerable potential. With its richness, it will age well. Drink from 2020.
From the northern end of the Gevrey-Chambertin appellation, this wine is ripe, floral and supple in texture. It has crisp red fruit and vibrant acidity, underpinned by ripe tannins. Developing quickly, it will be ready to drink from 2019.
Light and fruity, this has a fresh red-berry flavor. It has intense youthful acidity, lending a very crisp texture. With its soft tannins, it is ready to drink in a few months when the acidity has calmed down.
From the slopes high on the hillside above Beaune, this is a soft and ripe wine. Fruity and smoky, it has some richer berry flavors to broaden it out. Good acidity makes the wine fresh, fruity and ready to drink in 2015.
From vines in the plain between Corton and Beaune, this wine is full of ripe red fruits. Its soft, rounded character is spiced with acidity and the wood aging. Soft tannins fill the texture. Drink from 2018.
This crisp, dry rosé brings out citrus and orange fruits as much as red berries and red currants. It is tight and lightly mineral in texture, with a touch of tannin from the 100% Pinot Noir. The wine is ready to drink.
A Journal is an old Burgundian measurement for just under one acre. From a portion of this Grand Cru vineyard, this wine is perfumed, powerful and has great concentration. Already it is showing dark fruits, ripe plum and good texture. Acidity cuts through the wine, giving a great lift at the end. Drink from 2022.
Firm and structured, this still shows much of the ripe red fruit of the vintage. It has a round, warm feel, along with weight and density. Fresh berry flavors cut through the powerful texture. Drink from 2023.
For its small size, Morey Saint-Denis is blessed with four Grand Cru vineyards, of which this is arguably the finest. The wine's spice and wood flavors are still evident, although these will get well integrated into the rich red-fruit flavor. It is certainly still young and should not be drunk before 2022.
Rich and juicy, this wine holds excellent potential. With its ripe red-berry fruit, balanced tannins and acidity, and spice from the wood aging, it will become a concentrated wine. Drink from 2020.
Situated in the northern part of the Côte de Beaune, the vines produce soft, ripe wines. This wine is typical of this style with just enough tannins to bolster the rich berry fruits. It features a juicy backdrop along with touches of wood and spice. It needs time; drink from 2020.
A generous wine, this is packed with red fruits as well as firmly structured. It conveys the fresh acidity of the year, with fine smoky tannins. It will be an impressive wine. Drink from 2020.
A dense, firm selection, this has layers of red fruits and acids that help to give the wine's skeleton some flesh. This is likely to develop into a rich, but always firm, wine.
Earthy, soft and ripe, this wine shows the richness of the vintage. It is full of red plum and red jelly flavors, and the tannins are dusty in the background. The acidity holds it all together, and the finish is juicy and fruity.
Raspberry fruits and juicy acidity are allied to a softly tannic structure to give a ripe while fresh wine. It's fruity but with a firm, dry core that gives the potential to age 2016–2017.
With the weight expected from a 100% Pinot Noir wine, this is rich while also textured with tight minerality and tense acidity. It is dry, concentrated with the weight of two Grand Cru vineyards behind it. The wine is just ready to drink, although it will show well with a few more months in bottle.
This is a ripe and juicy wine. It has ripe wild strawberry flavors that go with the full-bodied feeling and the warm tannins. It's rich and developing well. Drink from 2016.
With the next two vintages both damaged by hail, 2012 is the most recent normal crop from Pommard. This structured and solid wine seems to have an excess of wood at this stage, although the ripe red berry fruits do give a more generous character. The tannins, typical of Pommard, kick in—although not enough to spoil the fruitiness. Drink from 2016.
A massive wine, firmly structured with dense and powerful tannins. This is a wine for long-term aging, with its dark black fruits and chunky feel. It is still just starting out; cellar for 10 years.
Dense, weighty and concentrated now, this wine will become opulent once the surface tannins finally integrate. The wine is superrich, with chocolate and licorice partnering with the intense fruit.
Very ripe, rich, structured wine, exuding power and concentration. It is packed with red fruits and damsons, creating a juicy character and tense mineral acidity. A magnificent wine, for aging.
A tight wine, this is dominated by acids, red fruits and firm tannins, and it's missing some of the richness of the vintage. It has a closed feeling, and it needs some months to develop, but this will always be dry.
This is a firm wine, but it has ripe red fruit. It shows an attractive touch of smoke, and there is fine balance between the firm tannins and fragrant fruit. Drink now.
Exhibiting the natural richness of a Chambolle wine, this is a work in progress. Tannins are still integrating with the generous red fruits and acidity to give the ripe and rounded wine it will become. Drink from 2017.
Still young, this is potentially a full and rich wine. It has the structure typical of Morey, with firm tannins and a good depth of cherry and red fruit flavors topped by acidity. The tannins are still firm and the wine needs to age, so drink from 2017.
The wine is structured and with bold red fruits. It also has a firm texture, layers of tannins and a solid texture. Acidity shines through at the end. These elements promise a serious wine that will age well. Drink from 2021.
This ripe, sweet-fruited wine is soft and quite mature. Red fruits have developed into a smooth and round texture with a delicate mushroom character. Drink now.
Nicely mature, this is a ripe red-fruit and spice-flavored wine. Soft tannins merge with the fruit to give a wine that is balanced with a fragrant, juicy aftertaste. Drink now.
The wine is completely mature. With soft strawberry flavors that have melded into the rounded texture, this is a wine that has only the lightest tannins. Acidity and an attractive ripe fruit character make this a wine to enjoy now.
Touches of toast and tannin give enough structure. The red berry fruits taste firm and extracted, giving a bitter edge. It's a wine that brings out the structured character of Pinot Noir rather than its fruit.
Rich, packed with  juicy fruit. The wine has weight, depth of fruit flavor and tannins as a central core. A smoky character indicates the wood aging, packing in with the acidity and black cherry fruits on the finish. Age for 5–8 years.
Light and fruity, this wine has red fruit and a tannic edge, and bright acidity that gives definition to the fruit. Ready to drink now.
The Burgundy-based producer has made a fresh, cherry-flavored wine that is identifiably Pinot Noir. It has soft tannins and a dry core, yet is dominated by red fruit and acidity on the finish. Drink now.
Despite its power, this is so elegant, showing tannins, minerality and generous flavors of black fruits, dark chocolate and spices. The smooth and rich surface belies the inner taut texture, showing how the wine will need many years to finally come round.
The small Mazoyères-Chambertin Grand Cru creates structured wines with plenty of texture and tannins. This is brooding, firm and very concentrated, with its fruit set way behind the dark tannins and spice note. It will take at least 10 years to start to mature.
Very structured and firm, this has the weight, richness and power that is typical of Echézeaux. It's the tension between the tannins and the ripe black fruits that give this wine its great aging ability and depth of flavor. It needs at least six years.
Using grapes sourced from 80-year-old vines, this is a rich, powerful wine, with juicy, generous black fruits. The big tannins are right upfront, lending a solid, dense texture. Gentle black fruits and acidity emerge on the finish.
This is a perfumed, stalky wine. It suggests fragrant red fruits and crushed raspberry flavors that contrast with the smoky flavor and strong acidity. At the end, red currants dominate.
This is a smooth, rich wine with just the right amount of tannic structure and wood flavors to add complexity. It has density along with red berry and black-cherry fruits that are lifted by acidity. It's a wine for aging, so don't drink before 2018.
From the northernmost appellation of the Côte de Nuits, this firm and solidly tannic wine comes from one of the vineyards on the list to get Premier Cru approval in the near future. Its tannins are well balanced already with the red-berry fruit and bitter-cherry flavors that are shot through with acidity. Drink from 2018.
This is a blend from different Premier Cru vineyards in Beaune. At this stage, it is dominated by the wood aging. That gives a bitterness to the wine that needs to soften and allow the ripe fruit to come out. It does have potential, although the maturity will take time. Drink from 2019.
There is a touch of minerality in this wine as well as a dry edge and ripe red-fruit flavors that are already attractive. It should be aged at least three years.
A fruity style of wine, this has red berry flavors and only touches of structure and tannin. The wine is warm and round, packed with fruit on the finish.
This attractively perfumed wine shows the structure of Pommard without pushing too strongly. It has ripe red plum and cherry fruit that will balance the tannins as it ages. Drink from 2020.
This has soft tannins, ripe fruit and fresh acidity, with a dominant berry flavor. For a Nuits-St-Georges, this is quite open.
This is a tangy fruity wine. It has crisp acidity along with spice as well as red-currant fruitiness. It is light and refreshing and ready to drink now.
Nuits Saint-Georges is the home of the Aegerter family and its Domaine. This ripe spicy smoky wine is rich both from the vintage and from the core of tannins that are typical of the appellation. It is a smooth rounded wine although it will need some aging. Drink from 2020.
While the producer does have vines in Volnay, this wine comes from the negociant side of the business. The wine has structure and some firm tannins. At this stage, the Volnay roundness lies behind the dry surface. But it does have weight and the potential to age well. Drink from 2021.
The acidity is most obvious at this stage of the wine's development. It does have structure, but it feels cool and tight. A green edge at the back adds to the cool character.
This wine is rather too jammy and ripe for its own good. It does have acidity, but it is also soft without the essential structure. It's not a wine for aging.
Smooth and softly textured, this is an attractive red wine. It has ripe berry fruits, gentle tannins that are enough to bring out the wood and spice flavors. Give the wine two years.
The wine is structured and still firm, showing tight tannins and acidity over the red fruits. A cool edge elicits the fresher character of the fruits. Drink from 2016.
This fruity wine features strawberry and bitter cherry flavors. A lightly tannic structure accompanies a very fragrant and smoky character. Wood shows through at the end. Drink from 2015.
This small domaine in the Mâcon region has produced a soft, ripe wine with attractive strawberry fruits. It's rounded, with just light acidity over the fruit flavors. At the end, it feels warm and ripe. Drink now.
A rounded wine, this is a blend of different premier-cru vineyards in Beaune. It packed with raspberries and red cherries. The acidity, typical of the year, is restrained here by the ripe fruitiness. Tannins give the wine just the right amount of support.
This juicy wine has attractive red fruits, perfumed tannins and lots of spicy wood flavors. Those characteristics make it already balanced and indicate a bright and fruity future. The wood gives the right density to the wine and the aftertaste adds freshness.
With structure and some firm tannins, this wine is on the dry side. It has black fruits that will develop over time, and certainly show now with a juicy background. The acidity is refreshing even through the solid tannins. Drink from 2020.
A wine that reveals its rich, jammy fruit slowly. When it arrives, the fruit is soft and generous, with strawberry jam and red plum flavors. It also has intense fresh acidity, a dry tannic core and aging potential.
Soft and generous, full of perfumed ripe berry fruits, touched with strawberry acidity. The tannins are all part of the softness, like flecks of dust on the wine. It is beautifully pure, ripe and open.
A charged Burgundy, packed with dense tannins and powerful ripe black berry fruits. There's a delicious tension here between the fruits and the tannin, pushing the acidity, the red plums and strawberries forward, but keeping them in check. At this stage, it needs decanting; otherwise keep for 2–3 years.
There is a sense of extraction and long wood aging with this bitter, chocolate-flavored wine. The palate has a dark plum-skin fruit character and a dry, hard-edged core. It will need at least six years to mature.
Vines planted between 900 and 1,200 feet above sea level give this cool interpretation of Pinot Noir. The wine is crisp, lightly structured with some tannins and with a delicate cherry and red-berry fruitiness. It will be ready to drink from 2017.
From vineyards at the south end of the Côte de Nuits, this is a fruity, crisp wine with attractive ready-to-drink fruit flavors. The aftertaste is tight and packed with acidity.
With some tannins and with bright red fruits, this wine is structured and has attractive acidity. A perfumed wine with a fruity future, it will be ready to drink from 2018.
This is the main nonvintage wine from this southern Champagne Aube-based producer. It's a cuvée based around the producer's specialty of Pinot Noir. With fresh acidity over rich white fruits, apples and pears, it is balanced, fragrant and ready to drink.
A structured, tannic wine, this has dark fruits and a solid, dense character that's freshened by the acidity. The wood aging is still showing with toasty, spicy flavors. These need to be further integrated into the wine as it ages, so wait to drink until 2018.
This wine is dense and still firm, although the red-berry fruits are being to integrate well into the structure. It shows signs of its wood aging that will need to go away for the wine really to develop. However, a juicy background promises well. Drink this wine, from a small Grand Cru close to the village of Aloxe-Corton, from 2020.
This is a smooth wine with soft tannins cushioned by generous fruits. Its red-cherry acidity gives the lightest stalky edge and will allow the wine to age further. The partial barrel aging has added spice. Drink this fine wine from 2019.
A soft ripe wine, this is elegant and with a light layer of tannins to give structure. The wine is now mature with juicy acidity giving way to secondary flavors. The finish brings out a more structured dryness. Drink now.
The red wine from this vineyard (which also produces a white) is firm with layers of toast from wood aging as well as the potential for ripe red fruits. It is going to need some time to lose that spicy flavor that currently dominates the wine. Give it until 2021.
This aromatic wine is delicious Pinot Noir. With fine ripe red fruits that are shot through with tannins for aging and crisp acidity for refreshing drinking, this is a rich wine that should be drunk now.
With vineyards south of the Michelin tire city of Clermont-Ferrand, this producer is on the edge of the volcanoes of the Puy de Dôme. The wine, lightly fruity with fresh wild-berry flavors, is soft and fruity, ready to drink young. Just wait until early 2018.
Firm tannins form the backdrop to this potentially rich and full wine. Bitter cherry and wild raspberry flavors give a young and fruity character, still integrating with the structure. Give this concentrated wine several years and drink from 2018.
Ripe with a core of dry tannins, this is a typical foursquare Nuits-Saint-Georges. Structure gives shape to the black fruits and acidity that are developing well. Already in balance, it will be drinkable from 2016.
Enticingly perfumed, this is full of red cherry and plum fruits that are cut through with intense acidity. A dry core of tannins both gives support and promises aging. Structured while packed with fruit, it should be drunk from 2017.
This is a very textured wine with a green, herbal character. It has tannins from underripe fruit, proving to be dry and very firm on the finish.
This wine has benefited from the warm vintage. It's ripe with attractive cherry fruit and a touch of spice from wood aging. It will be ready to drink from 2018.
Powerful, with tannins that are seamlessly woven into the fruitiness, this is a rounded, ripe and concentrated wine. The berry fruits and the juicy damsons are as important as the generous, soft texture. The wine will develop over the medium-term; drink from 2017.
Based in Nuits Saint-Georges, Manuel Olivier understands the appellation well. That is shown in this bottling that manages to combine the structure of a Nuits wine with dark fruits and a juicy texture. It's rich while also firm. Drink from 2017.
While there are still plenty of firm tannins, the wine also is now showing its red berry fruits and enticing texture. Great acidity cuts through the structure, giving freshness to the naturally dense character of this Grand Cru wine. It's for aging, but not for too long, so drink from 2017.
Well structured, this combines ripe red fruits with a firm texture. It has a good concentration and a mineral, terroir-driven character that shows through in its dry core. The juicy acidity at the end gives a lift, but the wine needs to age. Drink from 2017.
Every Burgundy merchant seems to have a Clos de Vougeot. The Aegerter's version is relatively light, as much fruit as tannins even while it is young. Berry fruits comes forward, while the layer of tannin is in a supporting role. It's a solid wine, not one that has a long future. Drink from 2018.
With its bitter cherry flavors and light, smoky tannins, this perfumed wine has a richer juicy element in the background. Lightly textured, it's more about fruit that is up front and refreshing. Drink now, although the wine will be better from 2017.
This firm wine fits well with the image of Pommard. A tannic core contrasts with the potential of the red cherry fruits. Wood aging is still prominent, and the wine needs time to balance out. Drink from 2017.
Still young with its fresh raspberry acidity all in place, this is a fragrant and perfumed wine. A core of tannins hold its place, while it is the bright fruit and generous texture that are most marked. The aftertaste is fresh, fruity and has the structure for aging. Drink from 2018.
This wine is soft and round, with attractive acidity as well as a light sense of structure from tannins. It features considerable acidity along with wild strawberry flavors that keep it lifted and aromatic. Drink from 2017.
Firm, structured and solid, this is a smoky, ripe wine with attractive acidity, red berry fruit and good concentration. It is developing slowly, with a solid structure and fine acidity. Drink from 2017.
This ripe and fruity wine comes from Faiveley's wholly-owned vineyard in Mercurey. A touch of tannin gives structure to the cherry fruits and ripe acidity. It's a rounded wine to drink now, but better to age until 2015.
The wine has the firmness of a Pommard along with ripe fruits full of sweetness and acidity. That makes it structured and with a good future, while being totally fruity at the same time. Drink from 2015.
This pleasantly perfumed wine has some acidity, jammy red fruits and soft tannins. It feels very rounded and smooth, with a structure that is totally integrated into the velvet texture. Drink from 2016.
Based in Les Riceys in the Aube region, this producer has taken advantage of the ripe Pinot Noir to produce a ripe, juicy and fruity Champagne. With fine acidity to cut the generous crisp pear and melon flavors, the wine is balanced, accessible and ready.
Ripe, soft red cherry fruits are linked to a light texture and soft tannins in this ready-to-drink wine. The final acidity brings out the attractive fruitiness of this fresh wine. Drink now.
Showing some of the richness and structure of Vosne-Romanée, this is a concentrated wine, spiked with wood aging while also full of dark plum fruits. It is still integrating, bringing the spice from the wood more into balance. Drink from 2015.
In this soft, ripe wine, red fruits are balanced by acidity, while the gentle texture marries well with the light mousse. It's immediately attractive with its fresh aftertaste.
The 16 months wood aging has smoothed the wrinkles in this wine, giving solid tannins, a dry core and red cherry and wild strawberry flavors. It is a fine performance, dense but not losing sight of the varietal character.
Côte de Beaune is a small strip of land at the south end of the Beaune vineyards, not often seen as a stand-alone appellation. This gently structured wine is full of fresh fruits and attractive acidity. With its dry core, it could develop but is drinkable now.
Firm tannins form the backdrop to this potentially rich and full wine. Bitter cherry and wild raspberry flavors give a young and fruity character, still integrating with the structure. Give this concentrated wine several years and drink from 2018.
With the next two vintages both damaged by hail, 2012 is the most recent normal crop from Pommard. This structured and solid wine seems to have an excess of wood at this stage, although the ripe red berry fruits do give a more generous character. The tannins, typical of Pommard, kick in—although not enough to spoil the fruitiness. Drink from 2016.
This wine has the classic richness of Pinot Noir, with a touch of textured tannin and bright red fruits. It needs more bottle age, so drink this wine from 2017. This is one of three Champagnes in a series of limited releases named after Dumangin ancestors (Hippolyte was the first to make Champagne).
Bitter cherry fruits and firmer tannins dominate this serious, concentrated Pinot Noir. It has weight and a youthful bitterness that needs time to round out. The juiciness and the structure are both there for aging.
This is a Blanc de Noirs, white sparkling wine made from red grapes, in this case Pinot Noir. That gives both richness and a tense acidity to a ripe, fully fruity wine. Spiced pear flavors partner with vanilla and youthful acidity. It could bottle-age to mid-2015 to bring out its best.
A cherry-fresh wine that's so full of fruit that its structure becomes secondary. A dry edge of tannin supports the fruit and acidity, making this wine so drinkable now.
Soft and smooth, with a creamy mousse, this is red fruit-flavored wine. It has a crisp citrus background while being ripe and rounded up front. The wine, 100% Pinot Noir, is ready to drink.
Sourced from grapes grown in the Côte Chalonnaise, this is a soft, red-fruit-flavored wine, with a ripe, jammy character that makes it almost sweet. It is ready to drink.
This is a light-colored wine, with structure and acidity to balance the perfumed cherry-flavored fruit. Still young, still developing its fruitiness, the wine is going to be crisp with attractive strawberry flavors and soft tannins. Drink from 2019.
From vines situated just under the line of great Grand Cru vineyards, this is a structured wine. It is surprisingly under-powered for the appellation, although its balance is just right. So firm black-plum skins balance a combination of tannins and black-cherry fruits that are topped with acidity. Drink from 2020.
Stéphane Brocard is based in Marsannay the northernmost vineyard in Burgundy's Côte d'Or. This wine comes from two small parcels with 35-year-old vines. It is already fruity and attractive, although the tannins do promise aging. Crisp with the pure acidity of the vintage, it will develop well and should be drunk from late 2017.
While the wine does have some dry tannins, it is surprisingly light and soft for a Nuits-Saint-Georges. Red cherry flavors are already as important as the acidity and the dry core. That means this is not a wine for long-term aging, so drink from 2017. This is one of the first vintages since Labouré-Roi, which was hit by scandal in 2012, passed into new ownership.
Louis Max has a particular affinity with the Côte Chalonnaise and this structured and firm wine shows good judgment. With acidity and a mineral element along with the fragrant berry fruits, the wine is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2016.
Light fruit, dwelling on bitter cherry and fresh raspberry flavors. The wine shows crisp acidity, tight tannins and a cool feel.
With some earthy aromas, this is a rich wine. It has weight, layers of wood and attractive strawberry flavor. The fruitiness is contained within a firm tannin shell that suggests the wine could age.
The maturity of this lightweight Pinot Noir expresses itself with depth of flavor—the wood and red fruit flavors reach out to the core of tannins. It has a smoky toast character along with the crisp acidity.
Pinot Noir thrives in the Aube region giving rich wines like this. It has a yeasty aroma which follows through to the ripe fruity palate. The wine is warm, while still crisp and tangy. This bottling is ready to drink.
There is a distinct tannic edge to this 100% Pinot Noir Champagne. It gives a firm character and with spice as well as red fruits and citrus. These elements, not quite integrated, show the wine needs to age further. Drink from 2019.
Named after the daughter of owner Alain Thiénot, this elegant Champagne from grapes grown on the Montagne de Reims is just reaching maturity. It shows structure as well as ripe white fruits, with a citrus background. Drink now.
There are plenty of dry tannins here, dominating light red berry and hedgerow fruits. It is never going to be a big wine, but the tannins should soften in a year to leave a fresh, fruity wine.
This is a crisp fruity wine, full of red-berry fruits and acidity. It has the vintage's rich character, juicy and with a core of tannins that will soften quickly. Drink from 2020.
In the rush for white wines, it is sometimes forgotten that Chassagne-Montrachet once produced more red than white. This soft perfumed wine shows the generous nature of the wines from this appellation with red-cherry flavors coming from the Pinot Noir. Rich, soft and fruity, the wine will be ready from 2018.
Vines planted in the 1960s give this wine its great concentration. With its powerful fruits and dense tannins, it is well structured, with the hallmark bright fruits of the vintage along with acidity. The tannins are very present at the moment, and the wine will need long aging. Drink from 2024.
Powerful and structured, this wine is dark with black fruits. The rich fruit and acidity are surrounded by firm tannins provide a solid scaffolding. With acidity and tannins at the end, this complex wine will age slowly, so don't drink before 2022.
This wine has a smoky character that gives an exotic touch to the red fruits. It comes from 60-year old vines that give concentration and dark tannins. As it ages, the wine will broaden and expand to convey opulence and richness. Drink from 2022.
Black fruits dominate this dense wine with a rich texture and a structure packed with ripe tannins. It is an impressive bottling from this single-owner Grand Cru. Dark and firm it will need aging. Drink from 2022.
This dense and complex wine comes from one of the magnificent Grand Cru vineyards in Morey Saint-Denis. It is a powerful wine with its rich, generous fruit and dense tannins. It has everything larger than life: big fruit, big tannins and a big future. Drink this exceptional wine from 2024.
This wine is dense and severely tannic. It has dense ripe-fruit flavors as well, although they are buried under the power of the structure. For a wine of such impressive character that is not a bad thing, it just indicates that it needs time to mature and will age well. Drink from 2023.
This wine is concentrated and dense. Big tannins flow up through this wine, giving shape to the ripe black fruit. In the back, acidity dominates bright red berries and the potential for a rich, generous future. The wine will age over many years. Drink from 2022.
Big, ripe and smoky, this wine is generous while having great freshness. It's packed with fresh strawberries and raspberries along with powerful tannins. The combination of structure and great fruit will allow this wine to age. Drink from 2022.
Produced from vines mainly planted in the 1970s, this is a concentrated dark wine. Rich and ripe, it has powerful tannins mingled with beautifully perfumed fruits. The wine is dense and packed with floral fruitiness as well as fine, sweet tannins. Drink from 2025.
Dark fruit backs up the dense, dark and firm character of this wine. There is sweetness from the ripe fruits into which the tannins fall, leaving a trace of dryness at the end. A fine wine with a great future; drink from 2022.
Firmly structured, this dark wine has smoky tannins and intense acidity combined in a texture that is dusty, almost dry at the core. Over this the ripe red fruits are spread thickly, giving a powerful concentrated wine that will age well. Drink from 2022.
Ripe and full of red berry aromas and flavors, this is a generous, warm wine. It has great swathes of juicy acidity and an attractive touch of toasty, spicy wood that is integrating well with the fruit. The tannic structure offers good support for the bright acidity and rich fruitiness. Drink from 2020.
Beautifully perfumed in a relatively light style, this Santenay is full of red fruits, sweet tannins and mouthwatering acidity. It has some richness, although the main character is of freshness.
Named after David Moreau's mother, Simone, this old-vine wine is concentrated, with sweet-tasting fruit and spicy tannins. The tight acidity gives a delicious lift to the red berry flavors.
Fruity and fragrant, this Savigny shows extra weight that makes it serious and age worthy. The wine's tannins are cushioned by the generous red fruits, which promise aging potential. Wood and spice flavors emphasize the finish.
Aged for 18 months in wood, this wine has dense tannins, dark fruits and serious structure. The berry fruit and acidity suggest that his wine has a generous and ripe side. This needs at least four years of aging.
A very structured wine that seems ready for aging. Its tannins are still firmly present, lying over the dark black fruit. Acidity gives the wine a rich, juicy finish.
Soft fruit, with a tannic hint underneath. The wine is supported at this stage by wood, while the fruit has strawberry jam sweetness. The acidity and structure really only come through at the end.
This wine is round, opulent and beautifully perfumed., with a structure smoothed by the ripe fruits and generous texture. Acidity and a fresh aftertaste bring out cherry flavors and leave a bright aftertaste. Drink from 2017.
Very structured wine, firmly anchored to a tannic core. The wine has weight, blackberry fruit and dark cherry flavors. It is rich, full-bodied, with great swathes of juicy fruit and acidity. Drink from 2016.
From vineyards close to the winery in Chevannes, this wine is ripe and fruity. It has attractive acidity, recalling the freshness of the vintage, and tannins that hold it together, providing a firm background. Drink from late 2017.
A blend of grapes from different growers, this is a structured, firm wine. It has a core of drying tannins as well as the bright fruitiness of the vintage. As it develops, that fruit will grow richer and fuller yet always maintaining a crisp edge. Drink from 2019.
Pinot Noir thrives in the Aube region giving rich wines like this. It has a yeasty aroma which follows through to the ripe fruity palate. The wine is warm, while still crisp and tangy. This bottling is ready to drink.
There is a distinct tannic edge to this 100% Pinot Noir Champagne. It gives a firm character and with spice as well as red fruits and citrus. These elements, not quite integrated, show the wine needs to age further. Drink from 2019.
Light and fruity, this has red fruit flavors that are tempered with soft, perfumed tannins and balancing acidity. Some sweetness shows through toward the finish. Ready to drink now.
This has soft red fruits along with a firm structure of tannins and acids. Shapely and balanced, this is ready to drink now.
Axel Stiegelmar confirms his reputation as one of Austria's top red winemakers with this delicious juicy Pinot Noir. It has just the right amount of barnyard character to go with the bright black cherry flavors, layered with soft tannins.
This blend of four parcels from different premier crus is structured with all the density of this fine village. Its black fruit gets a fresh edge of acidity, while the tannins are firm and tight. The wine needs to age and will be best from 2022.
The wine is light in color and light in body. Red cherry fruits give freshness, although there is a burnt aftertaste. Drink now.
This is a really refreshing, crisp and fruity wine. It achieves a good balance between acidity and lively red berries and lime juice. The wine dances brightly in the glass and would make a good apéritif.
A sumptuous wine from a vintage that is fruity and generous. It does show some of the structure of the appellation, but the juicy cherry and ripe strawberry flavors dominate. It's going to develop into a rich and early-maturing wine. Drink from 2017.
Already beautiful and rich, this has power, concentration and many layers of ripe berry fruits. Red plums also come through strongly, bringing in juicy acidity. This dense and muscular wine should age. Drink from 2017.
From a small parcel called Les Mazières Basses, this is a rare Village wine in an area packed with Premier and Grand Crus. It has power and richness as well as a smooth texture that is already velvety. It's ripe and concentrated, with juicy black currant and berry fruits, finishing dry and firm. Drink from 2018.
The steep, stony slope of the Cul de Beaujeu has produced this firmly structured wine that has rich plum and berry fruits. It is an impressive wine, ripe and juicy. With plenty of youthful crisp freshness the wine needs to age to plumb the depths that are there for the future. Drink from 2018.
The richness and structure of the appellation are well represented in this firm wine. It has dark tannins and hints of wood aging as well as ripe black cherry and berry fruits. With its structure and intense acidity, the wine will age well. Drink from 2020.
Ripe, jammy fruitiness gives this wine a generous feel. Packed with opulent berry flavor, it will develop well. It is rich and rounded, nicely supported by the tannins that are in the background. Drink from 2019.
This conveys pure strawberry fruit with just the right amount of tannin, making for a beautiful, perfumed wine. The dry core is still juicy with acidity and raspberry fruits, while acidity shoots through at the end. Drink from 2020.
This is produced from 25-year-old vines in the Chambertin Grand Cru vineyard. It is a smoky, structured wine with layers of dark fruits and ripe tannins, with the fresh acidity of the year. Lots of attractive fruit is surrounded by the firm tannins and dry aftertaste. It should not be drunk before 2020.
This balanced wine is full of dusty, dry tannins as well as ripe red fruits. A smokiness gives a dense, toasty character to the wine. With good acidity, typical of the vintage, the wine is well placed to develop. Drink from 2020.
From the northern end of the Gevrey-Chambertin appellation, this wine is ripe, floral and supple in texture. It has crisp red fruit and vibrant acidity, underpinned by ripe tannins. Developing quickly, it will be ready to drink from 2019.
This is a fine wine that performs at the level of a premier cru. It has brambly fruitiness and intense perfume. The structure is already finely integrated, allowing the strawberry fruit and acidity to shine through. Drink from 2019.
This has both a rich structure and rich fruit. The tannins comes first, dark and concentrated with spice and a dry core. After it, the ripe and juicy black fruit is layered with dense acidity. Together these two elements make for a concentrated wine that will age. Drink from 2020.
Ripe and juicy, this is a wine with structure and fine, dusty tannins that give it density. The red fruit is juicy, perfumed and has the freshness of the vintage, bright and forward. The underlying tannins are concentrated and will allow the wine to age. Drink from 2020.
This austere wine offers some firm tannins over the red fruit. It has acidity, red-currant fruit and a core of dryness, typical of young Pommard, that suggests it will age well. Drink from 2020.
This wine is soft and fruity, with a smoky touch that adds interest. Red-cherry flavors and balanced acidity allow easy accessibility. The wine, with its gentle texture, is ready to drink.
The wine is ripe, full of black-cherry fruits and with a substantial tannic core. At the same time, it does have the lighter style normally associated with red Pinot Noir. The aftertaste is ripe, fruity and rich with fruit. Drink from 2018.
One year of wood aging has given this wine its toasty character. It is balanced with the red-cherry fruit and acidity. Named after the constable who controlled the castle of Sancerre in the Middle Ages, the wine is dense with tannins as well as the fruit. It should be ready to drink, although it does seem on the dry side.
A warm-climate Pinot Noir, it's very soft and gentle. It is ripe, with good juicy red fruit flavors and a brush of tannin. Drink now.
Dark and dense, this wine has weight and richness, with layers of perfumed red fruits and plenty of concentration. With its solid tannins and structure, the wine is developing slowly and with power. The dry core is still prominent, showing how the wine will age over time. Drink from 2024.
This wine is dark and structured, offering ripe fruits although they are covered at this stage by the tannins. Firm and dense, with a dry core, this will be a powerful wine full of black fruits and concentration. Drink this from 2023.
This château in the middle of the Clos de Vougeot claims fame as the only winery situated inside the walls of this fabled vineyard. This ripe, rich and concentrated wine is full of jammy strawberry fruits that are deepened by the wood aging. The structure and the density of this wine show that it will age well. Drink from 2023.
First recorded in 1375, this vineyard produces powerful, concentrated wines. This fine example is dense, weighty and firm. The acidity is there, buried in the firm tannins. It is a wine with an enormous potential, dark and full of plum skin and berries. Drink from 2022.
Structured and dense, this wine comes from the remains of a quarry on the hill of Corton. From the Louis Latour domaine, it is powerful and packed with black fruits, rich while still with the freshness of the year. It has a good future, so don't drink before 2023.
Stéphane Brocard is based in Marsannay the northernmost vineyard in Burgundy's Côte d'Or. This wine comes from two small parcels with 35-year-old vines. It is already fruity and attractive, although the tannins do promise aging. Crisp with the pure acidity of the vintage, it will develop well and should be drunk from late 2017.
This is a light-colored wine, with structure and acidity to balance the perfumed cherry-flavored fruit. Still young, still developing its fruitiness, the wine is going to be crisp with attractive strawberry flavors and soft tannins. Drink from 2019.
Rounded and soft, with gentle tannins. Packed with black cherry fruits, a herbal edge and sweetness, this is already an approachable wine, fruity and generous.
Produced in this village in the hills behind the main slope of the Côte de Beaune, this wine is smooth and rich. Fine, soft tannins easily integrate into the sweet texture and red-plum fruit. The acidity is there, giving a wine that is both fresh and generous. Drink from 2018.
This wine has intense acidity along with red fruits, showing the freshness of the year. A smoky, burnt character from the wood aging needs to integrate, with a youthful crispness that needs to soften. Drink from 2020.
With its juicy, strawberry-like acidity, smoky character and firm tannins, this is already well developed and delicious. The finish brings out crispness and fragrance.
This is concentrated, with black plum and damson flavors that are balanced by firm, dense tannins. It has a dry, solid core, with a more perfumed character that merges with the acidity.
A foursquare, solid wine that shows its structure right up front. It is backed by red fruits and acids that lend a warm feeling. Full and dense, this needs to age.
This wine is so light, all bright fruit and crisp acidity. A stalky, herbal element contrasts with the red currant fruit flavors. The wine could be better from 2016.
The wine has layers of the acidity typical of the vintage. For fruit it is juicy with tight red-currant flavors and more of that intense acidity. The wine probably needs to calm down and so will be better from 2017.
This is a light and very fruity wine from vineyards in the hills above Nuits Saint-Georges. It has just fruit, light tannins and considerable acidity. The wine is crisp, bright and will be ready to drink from 2017.
Effectively a Blanc de Noirs, made from 100% Pinot Noir, this fresh wine has weight and richness. It is full, packed with acidity and pink grapefruit flavors that cut through the ripe texture. It is a food wine, rich and full-bodied.
This wine is soft and rather shapeless. It has red fruits and a gentle texture while lacking in depth. It's a simple wine that will develop quickly.
This is a pretty, perfumed wine. It is all jammy, with only light tannins. Bright and fragrant, it is sure to develop quickly. so drink from 2018.
For a wine from this appellation, this is soft, bringing out ripe fruit rather than structure. It means the wine will develop quickly and with charm as well as richness. The red fruits are already showing well, as is crisp acidity. Drink from 2018.
From the Louis Latour domaine, this rich wine is lightly touched with wood. It has red-plum flavors and ripe acidity, with the structure embedded in the fruits. Drink from 2019.
Ripe and fruity with a velvet texture that encompasses the tannins easily, this is a rounded, rich wine. The balance of fruit and acidity is already attractive. Drink from 2018.
Smooth, velvet-textured wine. It tastes like munching into mouthwatering black cherries. The acidity is important but not overwhelming. Ready to drink now.
Rich and dense, this concentrated wine has a fine, smooth texture that is ripe with red-berry fruits. The freshness of the vintage comes through in the acidity and crisp, taut texture. The wine will be ready to drink from 2020, the 800th anniversary of the oldest-known traces of this vineyard.
This structured wine is firm at this early stage, with tannins and a touch of bitter-chocolate extraction that needs to diminish before the black fruits get their chance. Keep this dark, solid wine until 2022.
This is a ripe wine. Red plum and berry fruits are given weight and richness by the solid tannins, smoky flavors and the dryness at the heart of the wine. Give this structured wine time to develop and drink from 2021.
With plenty of tannins balanced by ripe fruits, this is a concentrated, dark wine. It is rich with density and weight. The red-berry flavors are developing. Drink this wine, with its good potential, from 2019.
Attractively perfumed, this rich wine offers some dark tannins as well as forward black-currant fruits. The wood aging is still showing in the burnt toastiness of the wine, although this will diminish, leaving a broad wine packed with fruit. Drink from 2018.
Packed with red fruits, this wine has great potential, with attractive wild-strawberry fruits that are fresh and perfumed. Behind this fruitiness, the wine is tight and structured. It will be round, rich and ready to drink from 2019.
The texture and structure of this wine may be light but the fruitiness is so appealing. Soft and ripe with red-berry fruit flavors and refreshing acidity, it will develop quickly and be ready to drink from 2017.
A tannins-dominated wine, firm and dry. The fruit is relatively subdued, with a juicy character of raspberries, red plum skins and crisp acidity. This is a wine that needs aging to soften those tannins: give it 4–5 years.
A solid wine, showing some generosity and richness, the fruits displaying a fine balance between sweetness, dry tannins and bright acidity. It has some of the sensuous character of good Volnay, opening into ripeness. Worth aging for several years, but already offering considerable pleasure.
This smoky wine is ripe with a fine balance between tannins and rich red fruits. It is warm, rounded and attractively spicy. The structure and dry core will allow the wine to age. Drink from 2022.
Concentrated tannins balance this juicy red-berry flavor wine. The wine is still very young, showing its tannins strongly. They will certainly integrate. Drink this potentially rich wine from 2022.
As always with a grand cru from Gevrey-Chambertin, this wine shows immense power. It is dominated by black fruits as well as signs of the 60% wood aging. Behind, the red cherry fruits are developing along with the lively acidity. It needs to age and should not be drunk before 2019.
The two-acre Clos du Chapitre vineyard is in the center of the Gevrey-Chambertin village. The wine is rich, full-bodied, full of red fruits, dark cherries and a rounded, perfumed character. It's powerful with its firm structure and complex balance between fruit and acidity. Drink from 2017.
A ripe and rich wine, this is full of jammy red fruits. The structure is well integrated into the fruits, giving a smooth, ripe wine that's developing attractively. With a juicy, fresh aftertaste, it is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2017.
The initial impression is of toast and spice. Only slowly do the fruit and full-bodied richness of this wine become apparent. It comes from a Grand Cru close to Corton-Charlemagne and has similar structure and power. The wine will develop slowly and richly. Drink it from 2020.
This is a concentrated wine, full with dry tannins and perfumed red fruits. Hints of the wood aging give the wine toast and smokiness. The fresh fruits form a contrast offering a future of fragrance and stylishness. It needs to age, so wait until 2019.
With bitter cherry flavor and a light touch of tannin, this is a fruity, spicy wine. It has a cool climate feel of acidity and tight texture, while also being light and fresh. Drink now.
Very pale in color, this spice and red-fruit flavored wine is refreshing and crisp. It's a light wine, cut through by acidity and floral undertones. Drink this attractive wine now.
This single-parcel, partially barrel-fermented Champagne is in effect a Blanc de Noirs. If all that sounds complicated (and so does the name of the wine), the wine itself is much easier to appreciate. It is certainly rich, with a touch of tannin and mineral texture. Full of ripe white fruits, it offers good acidity at the end. It could age longer; drink from 2017.
A warm, rich wine, with its red plums, truffle flavors and fresh red fruit acidity. There is wood aging, which has melded well with the fruit, giving a soft, rounded core. The acidity shows well to finish.
Close to Sancerre, Menetou-Salon produces a soft style of Pinot Noir, the acidity tamed by fresh tannins and loganberry fruits. A hint of wood gives extra weight.
This wine is lightly structured with tannins and shows red berry and cherry fruit, although with little varietal character. It's attractively juicy due to its acidity and perfumed aftertaste. Drink now.
Deliciously rich and fruity, this is a wine that shows that Clos de Vougeot is a great vineyard. It has all the ripeness, the big, generous fruit, supported by wood. The berry flavors are intense, pierced through with acidity, and the denseness of the wine promises good aging.
Big, juicy fruit, bolstered by tannins, gives this wine weight and impressive structure. There is a dry core surrounded by ripe plums, herbs and fresh spices , resulting in soft, juicy freshness. But those tannins promise aging potential.
Initially earthy aromas give way to red fruits. The wine follows the same pattern, the barnyard flavors opening out with the ripe red plum and strawberry fruits. There is a delicious richness here, balanced with acidity and firm tannins.
This wine is generous, rounded and soft. Rich red fruits dominate, exploding in the mouth with red cherry and raspberry flavors. It is a soft wine, perfumed with delicious, forward fruitiness. Drink from 2017.
Soft tannins and a rounded texture make this wine almost drinkable now. The smooth structure only slowly shows tannins and acidity. A fresh, raspberry fruit character will allow the wine to develop. Drink now, although better from 2017.
This is a ripe and fruity wine. Soft, generous tannins are embedded in the developing red-fruit flavors. With spice, hints of the wood aging and a rich texture, the wine will develop relatively quickly. Drink from 2020.
Bold brush strokes characterize this wine, the fruit a complex mélange of red berries, acidity and weight. The wine has good density, offering a strawberry jam character to go with the fresh edge. Tannins are enveloped in the fruits, promising medium-term aging.
One of Bouchard's signature wines, this is beautifully textured, a series of bright fruits, strawberries and sweet acidity. There are tannins, but this is lighter than in some vintages, a wine for short-term aging.
An already complete wine, the tannins well integrated into the firm black fruits and acidity. It is foursquare but also has a richness that comes from wood as well as lively final freshness.
A solid structure and layers of dense fruit characterize this wine. Rich acidity, red cherry flavor and a dry, dark tannic core are surrounded by juicy red berry fruits and the freshest finish.
An intense and concentrated wine, with dense black fruits balanced by acidity. There is ripeness here, with a firm, ageworthy structure as well as delicious juicy Pinot Noir character.
This is deliciously hedonistic in the best traditions of Volnay, opulent and powered with flavors of blackberry jelly, dry tannins and perfumed violets. This is a big, ripe, solid wine whose perfumes give an enticing exotic aftertaste.
A firm and tannic wine, this has dry spices, dark fruits and concentration. Great depth of flavor gives a serious wine that also has a fruit-driven profile. Concentrated dark tannins push this wine to a great height and impressive length. Drink from 2020.
Packed with tannins and boasting an enormous structure, this wine is opulent while very firm. At the same time, smoky acidity shoots through all this density. From a great terroir, this wine shows minerality and its great structure well. Drink from 2023.
This wine is perfumed with gorgeous fruit that contrasts with the strict minerality. The tannins under the fruit are severe, solid, dark and promising enormous potential. Concentrated even while it celebrates great fruit, it is going to last for many years. Drink from 2023.
This wine is very young, still with layers of wood. It is going to be a structured, dense and packed with a strong mineral texture. To contrast, generous red plum fruits and intense acidity are ready to convey a deep, rich character. Drink this impressive wine from 2019
This offers a firm, dense structure, with dark tannins and big, ripe, opulent fruits. At the same time the elegance that is the hallmark of the domaine is equally present with stylish red fruits and a velvet texture. The wine needs to age to be at its peak, although it is beautiful now. Drink from 2020.
Big and bold with great strawberry and red cherry flavors, this wine has all the elements of dense fruit, intense acidity and rich tannins. The structure is dark and full of potential. With acidity at the end to give a lift of freshness, this is a wine for the long-term. Drink from 2020.
The vineyards of the 13th century abbey of La Ferté produces some of the best Givry. This wine has great structure with firm tannins, and also rich, juicy fruitiness that offers delicious acidity and a more solid base for aging. Drink from 2016.
This is a blend of Pinot Noir from Burgundy and the south of France, giving a warm and rich character with soft tannins and juicy red plum fruit flavors. Cherry and fresh acidity complete this attractive, easy wine.
This ripe, fruity wine is ready to drink. With red berry fruits and fresh acidity spiced with wood flavors, it's an easy wine that is ripe and soft.
Dense and structured via dark, dry tannins, this is a big wine, showing power but not great subtlety. If you want solid Burgundy, this is the wine.
This light, fresh wine, with its concentration on raspberry flavors, has lifted acidity and an edge of bitterness. The tannins are there, but relatively subdued, so it's likely to age quickly.
A fruity wine, just touched by some wood aging with attractive strawberry fruit flavors and acidity. It's not a wine for aging, its light minerality enhancing the fruitiness.
An attractive yet fresh sparkling Pinot Noir rosé. It has a fine balance with its acidity well integrated into the raspberry fruit flavors. There's just an edge of bitterness that spoils the aftertaste.
Rather stalky, this dry wine has a sense of extraction in the form of bitterness. The wine's red fruits are behind this dryness, demanding at least another 2–3 years.
This lean wine focuses more on its stalky texture rather than fruit. It has some attractive perfumes and hints of red fruits that are subdued by the austere structure. Drink from 2017.
While the wine is ripe, it does have a barnyard aroma that needs to blow away before it is ready to drink. The aroma comes with firm, dry tannins and a ripe berry fruits that are just beginning to develop. Drink from 2017.
This is a pure Pinot Noir cuvée from an Aube-based producer. It has a curious candied character reminiscent of fruit drops due, perhaps, to its youth. Give it a few more months to gain depth and drink from 2018.
This is a ripe wine, packing tannins as well as black fruits into a rich package. Black cherries and black plums are paired with a core of dry tannins. The acidity comes right through to give the wine its potential. The wine comes from a very stony vineyard and this shows in its tight mineral aftertaste. Drink from 2019.
It is rare to find mature red Burgundy being sold directly from the producer's cellar. This 2008 from an above-average vintage is certainly showing signs of rich maturity. It has developed the undergrowth aromas and spice flavors of ready-to-drink Pinot Noir. It has also retained plenty of acidity. It is a lightly tannic wine that is ready to drink.
There is plenty of the power and structure of a Vosne-Romanée in this single parcel wine. It has density and concentration over a rich full black-fruit character. There are still signs of the wood aging and some high toast flavors that need to integrate, so wait until 2020.
A single-vineyard wine, this is firmly structured and full of perfumed fruit. New wood aging gives the red berry fruit a smoky, toasty character. It's a rich, concentrated selection to age for five years or more.
Located on a high slope in Marsannay, the Vaudenelles Vineyard creates structured wines. This selection has a beautiful perfumed character, and it offers delicious red-berry flavors and lively acids that are striated by minerality.
This is a smooth and polished wine, with herb and new wood aromas. It has juicy red-berry flavors, and the tannins push forward. Structured, with intense acidity, this is ready to age for at least 5–6 years.
An old-vine wine, this is powerful, concentrated and impressively dense for a Marsannay. It is full of red plum and berry flavors, plus firm tannins that suggest this could age for several years.
Tannins and a red berry flavor combine in this soft wine. It has the structure of the vintage, with a firm core; the fruit and acidity developing slowly. Keep for 2–3 years.
Old vines lend a fine structure and density to this wine. It's not for longterm aging, with its ripe red plum fruit and generous texture, but is delicious now. Drink from early 2018.
Named after the daughter of owner Alain Thiénot, this Champagne comes from the Montagne de Reims. Full and rich, it is mature with toast and almond flavors as much as fruit. The vanilla flavor is balanced by the acidity and tight, zesty aftertaste. Drink now.
This is a red that shows some richness— ripe cherry flavor, as well as good layer of tannins. There is a juicy character to the wine that is balanced by the smoky flavors from wood aging. Drink now and until 2018.
This is a structured wine with layers of tannins as well as ripe red plum skin fruit flavors. It is a wine for aging, which would bring out a rich texture as well as intense acidity. It should not be drunk before 2017.
This is deliciously fragrant, with harmonious fruit and acidity. It has a full, rich character that offers currant and citrus flavors.
This shows Savigny's softness and approachability, along with tannins and acids. It is firmly concentrated, creating a wine that feels complete, juicy and rich.
This is a firm wine with great fruit density, with a round, generous and velvety texture. It has a touch of wood that needs to integrate with the flavor of red plum skin. The dark tannins create a wine that will age for several years.
With its ripe strawberry-jam flavor, this demonstrates classic Pinot Noir juiciness. It has dry tannins as well, yielding a ripe, concentrated wine that needs five years of aging.
Clos des Myglands is a vineyard wholly owned by Faiveley. In 2010, it has produced a richly structured wine, full of ripe plum and sweet acidity that dominates the firm tannins. The finish is juicy, balanced by a jammy character.
Made from grapes sourced from Domaines Devillard's 12 acres of premier cru Mercurey vineyards, this rich, weighty wine has ripe red fruits that are layered with new wood and tannins. A structured effort that's meant to age for five years and more.
High acidity gives this wine freshness, while the fruitiness is somewhat more distant. It could age, but the bitter edge and the acidity are difficult to get past.
This wine is solid, concentrated and tannic, and it has a dark chocolate flavor from having aged in wood. It's likely to develop into a chunky wine over the next few years.
This is a lightweight Chambolle that's dominated by red fruit and acidity. There is a bitter edge that comes from the wood and the firm structure of the vintage. However, with its attractive, juicy finish, it is already soft enough to drink.
A firmly structured wine, this has a dry character that's underscored by red fruit and balancing acidity. It needs to age for a few years to be at its best.
Ripe and round, this has a strawberry flavor that is surrounded by dense tannins. It shows a fine line of fresh acidity, and it is ready to drink, although it will age for several years.
This ripe, wood-aged wine has fragrant red-cherry flavors and good acidity. It's still young, so it does have some bitterness, although the rich fruits and structure all point to a good future. Drink from 2017.
A bright, fruity, cherry-flavored wine. The varietal character—juicy and with a light barnyard edge—is unmistakeable in this thoroughly delicious wine. Screwcap.
A small plot of old Pinot Noir produces this superb wine. It has all the richness of wines from Aÿ, with its red fruits and hint of sweetness. But it is the structure, the complexity that sets it apart, the grapes ripe and concentrated from a great year. Age for at least another five years.
Softly rich, a rounded wine that brings out ripe plums and sweet strawberry jam. The acidity only kicks in towards the end, as the tannins and final rich character offer contrast.
This is a juicy, fruity wine with intense acidity. It has spice, berry fruit and some smoky tannins. The aftertaste is tangy, hinting at orange as well as red-currant fruits.
The aroma profile shows typical Pinot Noir red cherries while the palate has a juicy character that brings out soft tannins and cool-climate acidity. Although it is a fruity wine with gentle structure, it does need to age until 2015.
Light colored and fruity, this is all about red fruit—its structure and firm tannins coming out slowly. This village wine demonstrates the richness of the appellation, showing a fine balance between its ripe fruit and its smoky, dry, tannic core.
Firm red currant and raspberry fruits dominate this smooth wine. The tannins, which lie underneath, give this round Pinot Noir essential firmness. This needs to age for 2–3 years.
Tannins and severe fruit flavors are the initial impressions of this wine. Behind the mineral, austere exterior, there is a richer, fatter core—its ripe red fruits waiting to surface. Keep for at least three years.
This is big, muscular and very opulent, with its density lying over its minerality. Flavors of black stone fruits and red berries have the intensity of a powerful, age-worthy wine.
Rich, yet always elegant, this has a raspberry flavor and terrific acidity that creates tension, contrasting with the opulent fruit. While it's structured, it will soften and round out over the next five years.
Big and showy, with an ripe, opulent feel, this is all about dark fruits and firm tannins. Flavors of black cherries and plums are balanced by the acidity, all rolled together into a structure that's powerful and seriously age-worthy.
This is a ripe Pinot Noir, with a firm and solid structure and a very dense character. It has concentration and a great depth of flavor; the blacks fruits and tannins cut into the heart of the wine. Age for at least seven years.
Christophe Perrot-Minot makes this wine from a parcel of the vineyard that is declassified grand cru. It's opulent and generous, yet it's also minerally and fresh. The sumptuous Chambolle feel is still to come as the wine rounds out and loses its youthful tannins. Age for at least seven years.
Made from grapes sourced from vines planted in 1902, this is a huge, powerful, minerally wine. It's currently tight as a drum, with solid tannins and great density that pair with ripe plum and wood flavors. The acidity that appears on the finish promises long-term aging.
Powerful while still fruity, this shows acidity and notes of ripe black cherry and spice. Very structured and solid, this complete, tannin-packed wine is definitely for long-term aging.
A pale rosé in color, this light and fruity wine has a fresh raspberry flavor, with a zingy texture that gives attractive acidity. It's light and creamy, hinting at yeastiness on the finish.
Fruity and ripe, it also presents a fresh feel that cuts through the jammy red fruits and gives an edge to the weight and velvet texture. It's almost ready to drink but will be better from 2015.
The big tannins indicate a wine with powerful potential. It has weight, richness, generous red fruits and a strong sense of structure. The freshness of the vintage comes through in the acidity at the end. Drink from 2018.
Fresh, soft and fruity, this is brightened by a jammy red-fruit flavor and light acidity. It has a juicy character, with underlying attractive, gentle tannins.
Very pure, this has a clean strawberry flavor, with exhilarating acidity. The wine has some structure and firm tannins, although its fruitiness is the dominant factor.
A solid, dense wine, its rich tannins dominating dark black fruits. The wine is ponderous, brooding, with shafts of acidity giving it a lift. But it does need a couple of years to soften that core of serious tannins.
A rounded, mouthfilling wine. At the beginning, it seems very soft, but then it is possible to discern rich tannins through the concentrated red fruits and black plums. The acidity is there all the time, a fine counterpoint to the seductive, rich fruits and dry tannins.
An intriguing wine, that offers ripe sweetness followed by an edgy rustic acidity. Is this a stage in its evolution? Probably, because the tannins promise aging and the intensely aromatic nature of the fruit points to a potentially fine wine. Just don't drink it yet.
Opulent and ripe, this wine has fine tannins that support the rich red fruit and smoky acidity. The weight and concentration of the wine make it so attractive and indicate it will develop well. Drink from 2019.
Full, fat, ripe, perfumed wine that is full of rich red fruits, plums and strawberries. It also has a stylish structured with refined tannins as well as a dense texture. It's a wine for aging over at least 5–7 years.
Château de Rully is managed by Rodet. It has produced a firm, dark and smoky wine in 2010. It's firm, solid, with an earthy, undergrowth edge. At the same time, its weight and density promise some good aging over at least five years.
A full-bodied wine made from Pinot Noir, this has richness and weight, accentuated by green-plum and lime flavors, but also an intense acidity. There's a great depth of fruit and flavor, making this a food Champagne par excellence.
This perfumed, smoky wine is gently wood aged and offers layers of tannin and black cherry fruits. It is still young and dense, dark and dry, with piercing acidity. It is concentrated, firm and needs time. Drink from 2019.
The fruit and juicy acidity are the focus here, supported by smoky tannins. The wine will develop relatively quickly, full of fruit. Drink from 2018.
This perfumed wine features ripe tannins and strawberry flavors. It is structured, with good concentration and acidity. The wine is developing well with the richness as well as line of fresher acidity. Drink from 2019.
This tight wine has intense acidity, smoky tannins, a light texture and an attractive strawberry-jelly-flavored finish.
This is a fruity, juicy and soft wine. It has plenty of red-currants that give the wine a crisper side. It comes from a vineyard just north of the Burgundian capital of Dijon, which produces the wine's cool fruity character. Drink from 2017.
This attractive, smoky wine has a soft, juicy texture that comes through the red fruits. Balanced and ripe, it finishes with acidity and is ready to drink.
Ripe and fruity, this is a round, soft wine that shows the jammy character of Pinot Noir. It has a straight line of acidity that cuts through the fruit, which makes for an attractive, light finish.
While this shows the concentration of the vines that were planted in the 1940s, it also has a tight, lean quality and considerable acidity. Its fruit is still subdued by the structure, and it needs 3–4 years to become round.
This is a soft, fruity wine that is already mature. It still has berry and red plum fruitiness although this is now integrated with the gentle tannic structure. The freshness comes from juicy acidity that creeps in at the end to leave a fresh aftertaste.
The wine has density and a good structure. It also has the acidity that marks the vintage. Red-cherry fruits and a crisp texture are balanced by the firmer tannins and solid character at the end. Drink from 2020.
This wine is structured and concentrated with solid tannins. It has great ripe red fruits and plenty of berry flavors. It is going to be a fine wine, full of both fruit and structure as it develops. Drink from 2022.
The juiciness of this wine, made by a producer based in Savigny, is what makes it so good. It is so fruity, with the tannins really only in a supporting role. That means it will develop quickly with the typical Savigny generosity. There is an attractive sprinkling of spice at the end. Drink from 2020.
With ripe fruits and solid tannins, this is going to be a rich wine. It has plenty of acidity to balance this richness. At the same time, the tannins are going to allow it to age well. Drink from 2023.
The wine comes from a single vineyard in the large 90-acre Château de Chamirey estate. It is beautifully balanced, rich and generous. Great red-plum fruits are there along with acidity and finely textured tannins. This is going to be a warm wine with a fine future. Drink from 2022.
This finely made wine has weight and firm tannins, along with intense acidity. Faiveley owns 12 acres of this premier cru which produces structured wines with fruit tannins and smoky fruit. At the end, the wood aging gives a burnt edge that needs to soften. Drink from 2017.
Made from 80-year-old vines from several parcels, this is a concentrated and dense wine. Red berry fruits give freshness, but it is the structure that counts. Drink from 2018.
Straightforward and fruity, this is fresh and light in character. It has plenty of acidity along with red cherry fruit flavors and a slight amount of tannin. It's drinkable now.
A balanced, ripe wine, this offers a good contrast between the dusty tannins and bright red-berry fruits. It's ready to drink with its fruitiness, although it will develop a richer, fuller character as it ages over the next year. Drink from 2017.
While the wine is ripe, it does have a barnyard aroma that needs to blow away before it is ready to drink. The aroma comes with firm, dry tannins and a ripe berry fruits that are just beginning to develop. Drink from 2017.
This smooth, soft wine is light and fruity. It has some tannins although fresh berry fruit and perfumed acidity are what characterize this wine. Immediately attractive, it's a light wine from a light year, and is ready to drink now.
A smooth and soft wine this is fruity, fresh and forward in style. Red-cherry flavor and gentle acidity dominate on the palate. It's rounded and ready to drink now. Finshes with a hint of sweetness.
This is a ripe, attractively fruity wine. With its red cherries, touch of spice and earthy, juicy character, it is all ready to drink, smooth and with a light touch of tannin.
This wine is structured with red fruits. It has a thin texture, a metallic character that is less pleasant. It needs more weight and richness.
This wine is dry and smoky, with tannins that will allow it to age. The fruit, though, only hints at red berry fruits and should be more developed for a simple appellation wine such as this. Drink from 2017.
This fruity, light wine is full of red berries. The tannins are there, playing a supporting role to the intense fruitiness and acidity that's typical of the vintage. This wine will develop quickly, so drink from 2017.
Chorey vineyards, on the plain close to Beaune, often produce good-value wines. This attractive wine is a good example from an uneven vintage. It has structure and fruit, maybe not enough, along with a fresh, tangy character. It is developing fast, so drink from 2017.
Wood aromas and spice show strongly in this wine. On the palate, there is a toasty character that gives a bitter edge to the ripe red fruits. That needs to go, so wait to drink this wine from 2019.
Showcasing the rich vintage, this is a generous fruit-driven wine. With red-berry flavors and plenty of acidity to balance, the wine is soft and juicy. Drink it from 2018.
This large appellation in the Côte Chalonnaise can produce fruity wines like this. With red-berry fruits and light tannins, the wine has spice and crisp edge of acidity that comes from fruit that was just ripe, surprising in the rich 2015 vintage. The wine will be ready to drink from 2018.
With its origins in the 17th century, this estate has 50 acres. This red with its ripe tannins and juicy red-berry fruits has the weight to give richness as well as fruit. A good structure supports the fruit while remaining discretely in the background. Drink now.
Smooth and soft, this has light, fresh red-berry fruits laced with acidity and perfumed by red cherries. The structure is gentle and with the bright fruits, this succulent wine is ready to drink.
Made from 60-year-old vines from a property next door to Vosne-Romanée, this wine is both structured and rich. It has dark tannins, with juicy and jammy plum fruits that are layered with acidity. It is still firm, dense and needs time. Drink from 2020.
The Marconnets vineyard on the slopes above Savigny-lès-Beaune produces some of the most perfumed wines in the appellation. This is typical, a wonderful medley of juicy, fruity aromas. It is still young, although temptingly attractive now. Drink ideally from 2018.
This beautifully perfumed wine has rounded tannins finely integrated into the opulent red cherry fruit. It's already a delicious wine, juicy and fragrant, although still with a long future. If you can wait, drink it from 2018.
Closed up and just hinting at its great potential, this wine is showing tannins and a dry, solid core. Slowly it reveals delicious, opulent red berry fruits and concentrated texture. It needs a lot of time before drinking; wait until 2019.
With its wonderful poise between dark structure and intensely fragrant fruit, this is firm, dry and packed with ripe blackberry fruits. It has great potential, as befits a concentrated wine from Vosne-Romanée, and is certainly not ready to drink before 2020.
Big, bold and cuddly, this wine's tannins are cushioned by the red berry fruit and attractive acidity. It has weight and a rich feeling, and the dry edge offers the possibility of aging. This small clos is exclusive to Jaffelin.
This is a closed, smoke-filled wine, and its tannins and toasty wood character currently dominate, which gives it a bitter edge. It has richness, with hints of juicy fruit that sit under the structure. Give it at least six years.
Currently dominated by tannins, this wine is rich and structured, and it demonstrates the potential of its huge fruit and weight. The final note of this age-worthy wine is smokiness from wood aging.
This wine shows the structured side of Gevrey-Chambertin. The vineyard is situated at the opening of a small side valley, a location that allows the grapes to ripen slowly. This is elegant and structured, and it's full of solid tannins as well as cherry and red berry flavors. Age this for 7–8 years.
With plenty of tannins balanced by ripe fruits, this is a concentrated, dark wine. It is rich with density and weight. The red-berry flavors are developing. Drink this wine, with its good potential, from 2019.
Attractively perfumed, this rich wine offers some dark tannins as well as forward black-currant fruits. The wood aging is still showing in the burnt toastiness of the wine, although this will diminish, leaving a broad wine packed with fruit. Drink from 2018.
Packed with red fruits, this wine has great potential, with attractive wild-strawberry fruits that are fresh and perfumed. Behind this fruitiness, the wine is tight and structured. It will be round, rich and ready to drink from 2019.
A normal five-barrel production was cut to two because of hail. This wine is firm, with hints of the generosity of the appellation waiting behind the dry texture. It's structured, with acidity and plum skins that will take some time. Drink from 2019.
This is a juicy wine, packed with red fruits. It has acidity along with an edge of tannins. The attractive fruitiness suggests the wine will develop quickly. Drink from 2019.
Old vines planted in a small parcel at the base of the Corton hill give this ripe and rich wine. Full of jammy fruit, it has structure as well as strawberry and red-cherry flavors, packed with juiciness that comes from the acidity. This wine has a good future. Drink from 2020.
This wine has both structure and ripe red-plum fruits. It is dark and dense, solid and with good acidity. A clear line of freshness promises a good future. This needs time, so don't drink before 2020.
This family domaine has produced a rich, structured wine from its holding in Vosne-Romanée. It is firm, dark and concentrated with rich tannins and red-berry fruit. Spice, acidity and a dense aftertaste promise aging. Drink from 2018.
A smoky, intensely flavored wine that is ripe and opulent. The tannins are beautifully integrated into the powerful texture of sweet berry fruits, intense acidity and sumptuous aftertaste. Age for 3–4 years.
Fine, elegant wine, packed with delicious strawberry flavors, sweetness and richness. At the core are firm tannins, but these are almost crowded out by the ripe fruit.
Sourced from an old parcel of Pinot Noir, this is a concentrated, dense wine with bold red-fruit flavors, a tight line of acidity and a dry, intense character. It hasn't lost its fruitiness and freshness, and should continue to improve till at least 2021.
Always a popular vineyard, Beaune Grèves has produces a full, ripe, intense wine. It shows some signs of wood aging as well as rich strawberry and red plum. It's delicious already, but this full and complex wine deserves aging. Drink now –2025.
A full-bodied wine made from Pinot Noir, this has richness and weight, accentuated by green-plum and lime flavors, but also an intense acidity. There's a great depth of fruit and flavor, making this a food Champagne par excellence.
This is young to release a Volnay, as this wine shows in its taste. It is almost shocking in its fresh acidity and red fruits, disclosing tannins and a drier side. Some juiciness will develop as the wine matures. Wait until 2017.
The purity of the Pinot Noir in this wine is outstanding. It may not be particularly complex, but the beautiful ripe red cherry fruit is so good. Drink now, or keep until 2020.
Soft, lilting wine that is gentle, ripe and ready to drink. The fruits have some sweetness, the tannins are light, and the acidity is fresh and never too intrusive.
This rich, almost jammy wine is given structure by the darkly tannic character. The dry, firm, toasty structure is pulled forward by the red-berry acidity that indicates a good future for the wine. Drink from 2020.
This wine is soft and rounded with attractive red-cherry fruits, ripe strawberries and touches of wood and tannin. Acidity comes along behind this richness. It is going to develop quickly and will give great pleasure. Drink from 2018.
A superb wine from a great year, this is powerful and structured, with great acidity and solid, pronounced fruits. La Romanée is a small vineyard, wholly owned by Liger-Belair, next to Romanée-Conti. The wine is rich, spicy and very complex, with black fruits welling up from its depth. With great structure, it brings together opulent Pinot Noir fruits with firm, dense tannins with immense aging potential.
Still firm, this wine is dominated by tannin and dark fruit, with a dry core typical of this Pommard vineyard. The red and dark plum-fruit flavors are developing slowly and the wine needs time to balance. Drink from 2019.
Firmly structured, this wine will be equally packed with ripe fruit. While the toast and tannin flavors soften, wait for those rich red plum and cherry tastes to come through. Balanced and solid, this dense wine should be drunk from 2018.
Ripe, soft and fruity, just hinting at the wood aging, this comes from a vineyard that was only lightly hit by hail in 2012. The acidity, spice and smokiness produce a wine that has a rich, red-fruit character that is shot through with fine acidity. Drink from 2017.
This wine is chunky and firm, and its lively red fruit brings freshness. With its dry core and touch of toast on the finish, this could age for a couple of years.
Dark, dense and tannic wine, very firm. The youthful structure covers the red fruits and acidity, promising much though for the future. The wine has a potential of elegance, balance and richness. Drink from 2018.
A blend from five of the Mercurey Premier Crus, a rich full-bodied wine, with elegant ripe fruits, red cherry flavors and spice. The wine is fresh, perfumed as well as solidly constructed with firm final tannins. Drink from 2017.
This wine is soft and ripe, with some attractive strawberry-jam flavors and fresh acidity. The rounded texture is already attractive, although the wine will be better from 2017, when it will have filled out.
Already this wine is so smooth that it is quite ready to drink. With its berry fruit flavors that are lifted by acidity, it is well balanced between mineral tannins and fruitiness. The aftertaste is full and round.
Dark colored and powerful, this is a great expression of the more massive side of Gevrey Chambertin. The wine is dense, dark, with black plum and fig flavors, leavened with attractive juicy acidity. Tannins thread through the acidity. Age for 2–3 years.
Hailing from the southern Aube region, where Pinot Noir ripens well, this Champagne is rich and full, with hints of red fruit, zesty orange and lemon-tinged minerality. The acidity is bright and fruity, highlighting the wine's attractive texture. Drink now.
Attractively ripe, this has fruity red-berry flavors along with acidity and soft tannins. This is ready to drink now.
This is warm and round, with red fruit flavors that are attractively displayed against a backdrop of soft tannins. The acidity lends crispness, highlighting the ripe fruit on the finish.
This is light and fruity, with its red fruit upfront. The tannins are balanced, in keeping with the wine's perfumed nature. The youthful acidity on the finish is likely to soften out in a year.
A beautifully perfumed wine, this offers a line of fine tannins and brilliant aromatic fruitiness. Cherries and strawberries show strongly against a backdrop of tannins and structure. The aftertaste, still with a hint of dryness, is round with great fragrant fruit. Drink from 2019.
Big, firm and dense, this is a powerful wine, with dark tannins that give a dry, concentrated character. The juicy plum and damson fruit flavors, along with the fresh aftertaste, will be a delicious balance as the wine develops. Drink from 2020.
This wine has a firm structure, solid with tannins and a dense, complex balance between acidity and perfumed red berry flavors. It is juicy, full of freshness as well as considerable tannins. It needs to be aged for several years; drink from 2019.
Rich and concentrated, this wine shows the firm tannins of a Gevrey-Chambertin. Ripe berry fruits and beautiful acidity contrast with this structure. The fresh aftertaste with its flavors of raspberries and dark cherries will be very fine. Drink from 2018.
Made from grapes that were sourced from vines close to Vosne-Romanée, this has all of the structure of a Nuits-St-Georges, with the power and density of Vosne-Vosne-Romanée. Delicious, concentrated black fruits pair with the acidity and the core of tannins.
For the moment, the tannins are still firm and the generous red fruits have not yet penetrated the surface. The acidity is present, like a line of brightness that cuts through this richly tannic wine. This is a potentially opulent wine.
Opulent and ripe, but at the same time it shows red fruits, fresh acids and a structured core. It has a wonderful, generous finish that showcases the rich fruits and warm tannins.
This is rich, showing the full-bodied character of a Gevrey-Chambertin Premier Cru. It has a sense of gravity and structure, with a flavor of red-plum jelly. Solid and chunky, this already expresses its fruit, although it does need at least six years to mature.
This demonstrates the power, concentration and firm structure that comes from the vintage. The fruit is rich and powered by opulent black fruits, with a dark, intensely textured finish.
While it has all the structure of Gevrey-Chambertin, it also has the richness of the vintage. This strikes a healthy balance between the two, creating a powerful wine that's full of black fruits and sweet tannins, with a firm, dry core. Age for 5–6 years.
Concentrated, dense and powerful, this has all the structure of a Chambertin. As a contrast, the juicy acidity cuts through the texture, luring out black fruits that balance the solid core of tannins. It needs to age for at least seven years.
The Corton hill has a number of red Grand Cru sites, including Vergennes, which lies at the western end. The wine has power, although its more dominant character is richness. It's packed with red fruits, laced with dark tannins and spice, and freshened with black currant acidity. It's a wine for aging, drink from 2018.
This firm, dark and still young wine has intense acidity that comes from the red currant and raspberry fruit. The tannins though form the real basis of this concentrated wine. Great juicy fruits at the end will develop well. Drink from 2018.
This wine is fragrant and ripe while having a balanced, delicate structure. It offers plenty of fruit and acidity, with dusty tannins and sweet berry flavors. It should develop well and quickly. Drink from 2019.
This perfumed wine features ripe tannins and strawberry flavors. It is structured, with good concentration and acidity. The wine is developing well with the richness as well as line of fresher acidity. Drink from 2019.
The fruit and juicy acidity are the focus here, supported by smoky tannins. The wine will develop relatively quickly, full of fruit. Drink from 2018.
This is an upright, firm wine that's solidly based around dense tannins as well as ripe red fruits. It has a very dry core giving a concentrated texture that means the wine needs to age. Give it 4–5 years.
This wine is ripe, jammy and full of juicy red fruits supported by tannins. The wine is still young, with its bright fruit very much to the fore. Let it round out before drinking, so wait until 2018.
From chalk soil, this wine is textured with tight tannins lying over the red cherry and berry fruits. Not rich, it's more a gentle excursion into Pinot Noir giving freshness as well as that light structure. It offers perfumed acidity at the end.
An earthy tasting wine, this has tannins and hints of soft, perfumed red fruits. Acidity gives the wine freshness although the dry, rustic character is off-putting.
This earthy wine presents barnyard flavors over the riper red fruit and licorice flavors. Drink now when the fruit is at its best.
Chorey-lès-Beaune, on the plain just north of Beaune, can offer—as here—good value for Burgundy. This wine, still showing some young austerity, has the potential to develop into a bold, fruity selection that will always have a firmer structured edge.
Very smoky aromas, the fruit ripe with sweet blackberry flavors. The wood is still very present, not yet completely integrated; there is a touch of green perhaps from the wood. At the same time, the wine is developing while keeping a fresh streak of acidity.
This rich, firmly structured wine comes from a nine-acre vineyard close to the village of Pommard. Its ripe black fruits are just starting to show through the dry core. Concentrated and powerful, it will be best from 2022.
With crushed strawberry and caramel flavors, this is relatively light wine, though elegant and pierced with acidity. Milk chocolate and soft tannins complete an attractive ensemble.
High acidity makes this wine taste bright, fruity and light. There is only a hint of dry tannin to the red currant flavor.
Laurent Dufouleur is the current director of Tramier and has created a series of wines under his name. This wood and red-fruit-flavored wine is likely to be attractively ripe and jammy as the wood softens and integrates. There is fine acidity at the end and the wine will be ready to drink from 2019.
This wine really benefits from the delicious ripe fruit of the vintage. So broad, rich red-berry flavors give the wine a generous character with just the right amount of the balanced acidity. The wine is full, fruity and ready to drink.
This ripe wine comes from organic vineyards in the village of Brochon, next to Gevrey-Chambertin. It shows plenty of structure, a tantalizing smoky character from wood aging and juicy red fruit character. This will be a delicious wine to drink from 2018.
Made exclusively from Pinot Noir grown in the best parcels of the Josselin vineyard, this Champagne has richness along with hints of maturity. Fruity with citrus and green apple flavors, it has a crisp texture that is just about to soften. Drink from 2018.
Lovely perfumed fruit with delicious, soft sweetness, raspberry and sweet plums. The acidity attractively cuts through this ripeness.
A dry wine with firm tannins over the juicy red-cherry fruits. It is structured, while likely to develop well over the next few years. The wood and fruit are both attractive at this stage.
Rich, velvet-textured wine, this has weight and tannins surrounded by red berry fruits, soft acidity and a lingering sweet aftertaste.
Showing richness, this wine is smooth and well balanced between ripe red berry fruits and generous tannins. The wood aging shows in a slight burnt edge, but this will pass as the wine develops. Drink from 2016.
An attractive, soft wine, with a chewy, juicy character. It shows red fruits, a touch of licorice and acidity. The wine is now mature. Drink this year.
With some firm structure, this wine also has great fruitiness. It offers plenty of raspberry fruits, good acidity and a solid texture of tannins. The acidity keeps the wine perfumed and fresh. Drink the wine from 2019.
Aube-based Jean Josselin specializes in Pinot Noir. This bottling has juicy raspberry flavor, bright acidity and a candied fruit aftertaste. Drink now.
This is a simple, fruity wine. Its red cherry fruit is cut with a stalky, crisp texture and layered with acidity. It's made to drink young.
This small appellation is in the hills behind the Côte Beaune. The wine has the cool character of many of these wines, with red-currant fruitiness. Layers of acidity give the wine a youthful, ready-to-drink fresh character.
From negociant Nicolas Potel's own vines, this wine is dense and smoky. It has spice and hints of licorice as well as rich red-cherry fruit. The tannins and the structure of the wine promise aging, so drink this concentrated wine from 2020.
With gentle tannins and juicy red fruits this is a ripe wine that is developing fast. It is beginning to get secondary flavors: mushrooms with undergrowth aromas. The fruit is still there, of course, giving red berry and acidity. Drink this wine soon, certainly from late 2017.
Vines planted in 1947 are the source of this dark and concentrated wine. It has a strongly smoky character with dry tannins. They contrast with the potential of the red cherry and berry fruits that are ripe and juicy. The wine is developing well and should be ready to drink from 2019.
With its tannins, the wine is firm, tight and dark. The black fruit flavors are just beginning to come through. It has power and structure and certainly needs to age. Drink from 2017.
Broad and rounded, it is full of sweet fruits and soft tannins while still retaining a good sense of structure. Red fruits come through strongly to give richness. It's for short-term aging.
This young and structured wine has ample fresh red-currant fruitiness, but is ensconced in dry tannins that will soften over the next few years. The wine holds good potential, with its bright fruit and final acidity. Drink from 2019.
For a wine from the 2011 vintage, this ripe wine has plenty of weight. It's in the fruity, fresh spectrum but this is sustained by a young, solid and tannic core. Full of red fruits and sweet final acidity, it's for medium-term aging.
Wood aging for 18 months has smoothed out the natural tannins of this Pommard while retaining the concentration of the 30-year-old vines. The wine is rich, soft, full of blackberry fruitiness and maturing well, ready to be drunk from 2015.
Initially there is too much burnt wood flavor in this wine. It's only slowly that the red fruits begin to show, leaving a fresh, if lightweight character before attractive final acidity.
At the southern end of Nuits Saint-Georges, this vineyard produces a ripe and full style of wine. This wine has those characters along with the tannins and the acidity of the vintage to produced a juicy wine that will age well. The aftertaste keeps that crunchy, crisp character. Drink it from 2019.
Produced from 65-year-old vines, this is a rich and perfumed wine from the estate of Nicolas Potel. It is structured, balancing the red fruits and acidity with a solid framework of tannins. Spice from the wood aging shows lightly, while the wine finishes with crisp red-currant acidity.
This is bright and fruity wine that has a smoky character as well as brilliant black fruits and acidity. Aromatic and concentrated, the wine is still developing, still with considerable acidity. That will broaden out as the wine matures to give a rich, always lively wine. Drink from 2018.
This soft wine has red berry fruits and gentle tannins. It is dry, the fruitiness conveying a fresh character, a tang of acidity and black currant intensity. It is ready to drink, although it will be better from 2016.
Fresh while also ripe and jammy, this is a strawberry-flavored wine with attractive acidity at the back. It is soft, lightly structured with lifted, perfumed fruitiness. Drink now.
Very pale in color, this is a fruity, fragrant wine. It has acidity, red fruits and a leathery texture. There is something of the undergrowth here, an earthy character that needs time to broaden out. Give the wine 4–5 years.
A dense wine, rich and smooth for a Nuits-St-Georges, full of ripe red fruits, dark cherries and acidity that almost gives the wine a fresh character. Behind this fruitiness is a more solid, dark structure of tannins that will allow the wine to age. Drink from 2018.
This beautifully perfumed wine comes from one of the highest in elevation premier cru vineyards. The tannins have fully integrated with the red berry and cherry fruits to give a soft, jammy character that contrasts with acidity to give a great lift at the end. Drink this sophisticated wine from 2018.
Partly barrel-fermented, this impressively ripe wine has structure and tannins, as well as attractive, perfumed fruits. The tannins add spice as well as a touch of pepper while integrating well with the lively, fresh fruits at the end. Drink from 2018.
Still young and firm, this wine gives indications of potential fruitiness along with a structure that promises concentration. Layers of black fruits and acidity need time to integrate fully with the dark structure and dense texture. Wait to drink this wine for a few more years, at least until 2018.
This is a rich wine that has some bitter extract as well as flavors of chocolate and red berry fruits. The toasty wood is very evident and considering its age, this is unlikely to go away. Drink now.
A lively wine that has flavors of toast as well as red fruits. It is not completely dry, with a soft, sweet aftertaste that has masked the acidity.
This wine is firm and structured, with dark tannins and a dense texture that is still dry. It offers ripe fruit as well as acidity, currently overshadowed by the tannins but will come to the fore with some time. The wine will age well, thanks to the solid structure and dry core of tannins. Drink from 2020.
This wine is big and ripe with layers of tannins and attractive fruitiness. Bright acidity comes from the strawberry and red-cherry fruit. The drier structure is integrating well, with plenty of richness behind. The wine will develop well; drink from 2019.
Unoaked Pinot Noir from Corsica, showing ripe berry flavors, fresh acidity and only light tannins. It's what it says on the label: for casual drinking.
Still young and with strong wood aging flavors, this is otherwise a light wine where the fruit is reticent. Bitter cherry flavors show through along with acidity, and the wine obviously needs time to settle down. Drink from 2016.
An attractively soft and fruity wine, flavored with red cherries and given a lift with acidity. It's a simple, lightly structured wine that can be drunk now.
This is lightly structured, showing balanced red berry fruits and round tannins. For a 2010, it is softening fast; this should be drinkable in the next six months.
Soft and crisp, this is light in texture and very fragrant. It boasts intense strawberry flavors, with already well-integrated tannins and a smooth, easy finish.
This soft and ripe wine is full of bright cherry flavors, with gentle tannins and just a hint of wood aging. A proper Pinot Noir acidity brings out the fruitiness of the wine. Drink now.
This wine has great fruitiness, soft tannins and generous, ripe red fruits, while finishing dry. It's a wine with the structure for aging while also packed with big red fruits. Keep for 4–6 years.
A fine, mineral, structured wine with a very dry, solid core. Juicy red fruits offer a hint for its future ripeness. It has the freshness of the vintage that shows through at the end of this chunky wine. Age for 5–7 years.
The wine has firm, dark tannins as befits a Pommard, with underlying sumptuous black fruit. As the tannins soften, this will become a rich and juicy wine, and it will likely always remain structured.
This is soft and rounded, with attractive red plum and berry fruits that bring in acidity and a light tannic character. The wine is ripe, with a dry core surrounded by cherry flavors and fresh acidity. It is not a wine for long aging, drink from 2017.
The weight of the bottle seems to foretell this wine's weight, structure and judiciously layered oak influence. With ripe cherry and berry flavors, it's a wine that can age. Drink from 2015.
Steinbach is a village at the extreme southern end of the Alsace vineyard, known for its Pinot Noir. This is a rich, full example—a wine that has structure and concentration, as well as ripe cherry fruitiness. It can be drunk now, or until 2022.
As part of a range of wines that are based on specific parcels of vines, this wine has also been partially wood fermented. Its richness and the touches of spice and toastiness give the wine a ripe rounded character. However, it is dry, crisply textured with a touch of tannin to give it structure. Drink now.
A fine blend of ripe fruit and crisp red berry flavors, this negociant wine produced by Domaine Dujac is structured and generous. The bright acidity reflects the vintage while the structure and tannins reflect the appellation. Together, they will allow the wine to age. Drink from 2019.
Rich, round and concentrated, this is developing fast. The acidity is already comfortably embedded in the ripe red-berry fruit..
Concentrated and complex, this has structure and acidity, with a black cherry flavor. It's a ripe, powerful wine that could become more generous as it ages.
This shows the richness of the vintage in its ripe red fruits. It has weight as well as tannins, with a solid, firmly structured base of red plum fruit.
For a Premier Cru, this is surprisingly open and ready. It has a light structure, offering delicious, forward, juicy fruit that has been rounded out by wood aging. With its ripe character, it will be ready to drink in a year.
The wine is so soft that only the light wood flavors give it shape. It is smooth with red plum fruits that are rounded and sweet in style. Acidity seems to be an afterthought. Drink now.
This is a lighter style of Pinot Noir than some produced in Sancerre today. It brings out perfumes and red-cherry flavors lifted by acidity. The wine is fruity, with hints of wood aging and a juicy aftertaste. Drink now.
Dense tannins dominate this firm and structured wine. Behind the dry surface lies fruitiness, bringing out red currant and berry flavors along  with acidity. The wine is potentially rich and deliciously perfumed. Drink from 2017.
This soft wine has strong red-berry flavors and a ripe, lightly tannic texture from the 100% Pinot Noir. It is fruity and ready to drink.
Behind the main vineyards of the Côte de Beaune, this village makes some delicious wines, both red and white. This village wine, full of fruit, also has wood-aging flavors and firm spicy tannins. It is coming together well and will be ready to drink from 2020.
The Domaine des Perdrix is based at Nuits Saint-Georges, so this wine comes from the Côte de Nuits. It is richly fruity with layers of warm red fruits and soft tannins. Rounded and ripe, the wine is an instant success. Drink now.
Lightly perfumed, this wood-aged wine has soft tannins and an unfocused character, which brings spice as well as green fruits. The aftertaste is taut and earthy.
Structured and still very young, this is a dense and fruity wine. The tannins and the spice and licorice from wood aging show strongly, although they are just beginning to soften and integrate. Expect a rich wine, layered with fruit and ripe tannins as it develops. Drink from 2023.
From right at the northern end of the sweep of Corton Grand Cru vineyards, this rich and complex wine is dense with smoky flavors as well as ripe blackberry fruit. It is solid, densely structured and powered minerality from the chalk in the soil. This is going to be a fine wine, so drink from 2019.
This Premier Cru abuts some of the grandest Grand Crus of Burgundy. It shares the same rich, age-worthy characters with this dark structure and dense tannins. The wine is still very young: its texture mineral and concentrated. The black fruits and licorice flavors will develop slowly and surely, but don't drink before 2022.
This is a blend of the best barrels from the five Mercurey Premier Crus owned by the Devillard family. First produced in the 2010 vintage, the wine is now made in most vintages. It is a rich wine, bringing out the pure red fruitiness of a Mercurey and its beautifully integrated structure. It is concentrated and very dense, packed with vanilla, mint and dark coffee flavors as well as the fruit. Age this wine, at least until 2020.
Perfumed spice aromas give this wine its toasty character. The wood aging dominates the fruit. The fruit is ripe and will develop. Give this wine until 2024.
Old vines on the Aegerter Domaine in Savigny-lès-Beaune give a rounded ripe wine. It has a crisper red-cherry side to its otherwise smooth texture. The tannins support all this juicy fruit and offer a chance for the wine to age. Drink from 2020.
This still-young wine is jammy while firmly structured with dry tannins. There is a foursquare character that misses subtlety with its broad-brush approach. The wine does need to age and will be ready to drink from 2023.
While there is a youthful stalky element to this wine, it also has plenty of ripe black-cherry fruit. That suggests a warm ripe future as the tannins soften. Drink this potentially rich, spicy wine from 2019.
Les Meslaines is the name of the parcel of Pinot Noir that produces this Blanc de Noirs. It has richness, a ripe character with fresh apricot flavors, a Champagne that has the weight of a wine. It could do with bottle age, but for freshness drink now.
A Blanc de Noirs made from 100% Pinot Noir, this is already showing some maturity, with flavors of black truffles and mushrooms to go with the richness. There is a yeasty character that blends well with the almonds and currants. The finish is ripe and full.